like
MAMA
Used to MAKE
PUBLIC LIBRARY Ann Arbor. Mich Revised


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520002)
LIKE MAMA USED TO MAKE
a collection of
Favorite and Traditional
JEWISH
DISHES
DISENED AND ILLUSTARTED BY SUZANNE SARNOFF
ASSISTED BY JAN MILLER
COMPILED AND WRITTEN
BY THE WOMEN
of the
ANN ARBOR CHAPTER
OF
HADASSAH
THE WOMEN'S ZIONIST ORGANIZATION
OF AMERICA


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520003)
COMMITTEE
CHAIRMAN: Suzanne Sarnoff
SELECTING AND EDITING RECIPES : June Weiss, Shirley
Ingber
WRITING : Amelia Needle, Glossary written by Sorrel
Baker
PROOFREADING : Amelia Needle, Roseanna Halman, Estelle
Cohan, Ethel Brody, Beverly Cricow
TYPING : Faye Woronoff, Elaine wax Mary Mitchell,
Roseanna Halman, Ethel Brody
PHONING FOR RECIPES : Rea Judson, Lee Kaplan, Roseanna
Halman, Elaine wax Ada
Margolis, Evelyn Feinberg
BUSINNES : odes Elden
OVER-ALL ORGANIZATION AND PLANING : June Weiss
Amelia Needle, Ruth perleman, Bea Kahn
Ethel Brody, Sorrel Baker
THE FINAL MANUSCRIPT
FOR THIS BOOK
WAS TYPED BY
KATHERINE D. WILKINSON
Ann Arbor, Michigan
Copyright, 1952.
Ann Arbor chapter of Hadassah
LIKE MAMA USED TO MAKE
Revised June 1974
A Revision! Mazel Tov, Twenty-five years ago we were good
cooks. But experienced? That's something else again. As we
watched Mama make Shabbat dinner, we measured her shtikels
and bissels and tried to tell what it looked like when one
added enough of something until it looked right. Results?
LIKE MAMA USED TO MAKE - - - And the Ann Arbor Chapter of
Hadassah has sold this cook book all over the united states
and in other parts of the world. There is an English Edition
with recipes we may be using in 2000 C. E. or whenever the
metric system is adopted here. Money for Hadassah was the
reason for writing and money for Hadassah we have made. Over
20,000 copies have been sold. Keneinehora, a mekhaya!
Then why a revision? Today we eat differently. We may eat
Jewish but we cook quicker. We watch our weight for better
health. So when we cook Like mama used to make, we use less
sugar, less flour and perhaps smaller quantities for smaller
families. Some recipes are the same. Some recipes have been
eliminated. Some recipes have been replaced with modern
versions of your old favorites. Some recipes are entirely
new. Members of 1974 Hadassah have endowed us with treasures
from their family recipe files that their Mamas used to make.
So you see, though this cookbook looks familiar and has the
same wonderful Jewish traditional stories and pictures, the
recipes are up-to-date and kitchen tested.
So put on your favorite apron and test your culinary talents
with the new, LIKE MAMA USED TO MAKE.
Organized and Edited by:
Mildred Carron
Assisted by:
Ceil Pear
and
Many others
Books may be obtained by writing to the Ann arbor chapter of
Hadassah, P.O BOX 1734
Ann Arbor, Michigan 48106


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520004)
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
We gratefully acknowledge our indebtedness to
everyone who helped in the preparation of this
book; to the contributors of recipes, without
whose enthusiastic cooperation this book would
not have been possible; to the Crown Publishers
of New York City for permission to quote anec-
dotes from the Treasury of Jewish Folklore by
Nathan Ausubel; to Nathan Ausubel for permission
to reprint passages from his Treasury of Jewish
Humor; and to our printers. Cushing-Malloy or
Ann Arbor, for their generous assistance and
technical advice.
All passages marked with an asterisk (*) are
reprinted from the Treasury of Jewish Folklore
by Nathan Ausubel, with permission of the Crown
Publishers, New York, N. Y.
The article Jewish Food was written by Nathan
Ausubel and was taken from the Treasury of Jew
ish Humor.
The passages by Sammy Levenson which we quoted
are from his book Meet The Folks, published by
the Citadel Press, New York.
INTRODUCTION
That type of cooking which is known as Jewish
has developed gradually as a result of the com-
bination of dietary laws, festival customs, and
historical and socio-economic influences. Specif-
ic dishes differ widely not only in preparation,
but in use, so that a food which is popular among
Jews whose ancestors came from one part of the
world is utterly unknown to other Jews. With the
19th century emigration from eastern European
countries, however, the dishes which were most in
use by the Jewish people there have become familiar
in Jewish settlements almost everywhere. These
dishes thus constitute the basis of modern Jewish
cookery. Of course variations and exceptions
along with distinct national characteristics still
remain in force.
In our book we have tried to include only those
dishes which could be considered Jewish or Jewish
style. Wherever possible we have given different
national versions of the same dish. In selecting
our recipes we made an effort to use only those
which we felt were popular and in common usage among
the Jews of that particular national group.
Our main goal in compiling this book has been to
present material, which could not be obtained from
the ordinary run of cookbooks, in a compactly organ-
ized, comprehensive manual with explicit instructions
for the young modern homemaker who has always wanted
to know how to duplicate the secret charms of what
"mother used to make".


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520005)
Lox
CREAM CHEESE
JEWISH FOOD By Nathan Ausubel
By the way, have you ever heard of Culinary Judaism? No?
To tell you the truth, I hadn't either, until I heard a
Quip about it made by an eminent neurologist. He remarked
that regardless whether Synagogue Judaism will survive the
corrosions of time and change, of one thing though he was
certain - that Culinary Judaism would endure. In fact,
it would be the catalyst to bind together all Jews in an
indestructible brotherhood.
This tasty discovery he made after observing that many
American Jews, who had completely given up attending syna-
gogue and whose other ties to the Jewish people had become
tenuous, had the conviction that by being passionate eaters
of Jewish cooking they were thereby proving their loyalty
to their Jewish identity. A slice of hot noodle kugel, as
it were, should make all in Israel brothers!
The religious symbols of Culinary Judaism are too numer-
ous to mention. But it might well be worth one's while to
reflect on the celestial arcana which reside in begel with
lox spread out on a layer of Philadelphia cream cheese in
kashe knishes which melt in the mouth like manna but then
sink like lumps of lead in the pit of the stomach, or in
gefilte fish swimming in sauce and spiced with onion and
pepper.
For a dish of delicious gefilte fish, as Mama Selig used
to make it in the good old days, the faithful of Culinary
Judaism are ready to go to the other end of Hoboken. For
A crunchy bagel with lox they'll get up bright and early
on a Sunday morning to drive twenty miles to the nearest
Jewish dairy restaurant way off in Hartford. For a past-
rami sandwich with a large dill pickle and coleslaw on the
side, washed down by hot tea with lemon drunk from a glass
and with limp sugar in the mouth, they'll move even to
Pitkin Avenue in Brownsville. (Continued). . . . . . . . .


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520006)
The strenuous devotion the Culinary Jew shows for his
delicious faith one brings only to the higher values.
There is even a ritual to satisfy his spiritual craving.
For instance, by virtue of lapping up a plateful of mand-
len floating like pond lillies in chicken broth on Friday
night, he feels as though he were participating in the re-
ception of the mystic Sabbath Bride as visioned by the med-
ieval cabalists. And as for a strip of helzel, which is
stuffed chicken neck -- holy, thrice holy!
Of course, there is a reason for everything, also for
the specific character of Jewish cooking. For centuries
most Jews lived in stony ghettos where no green thing ever
showed its natural face. So they became estranged from
many vegetables and fruits. Since they were very poor, the
principal articles of their diet consisted of herring - the
poor Jew's meat - of cheese, potatoes, onions, garlic, dried,
beans, and bread - especially bread. Meet, poultry, and
fish were usually reserved for the Sabbath and religious
festivals. Oddly enough, this unbalanced diet didn't seem
to bother most poor Jews vary much, they had so little to
eat that whatever they ate they digested well. Only one
trouble: there wasn't enough to eat!
II
CONTENTS
Introduction	7
Jewish Food, by Nathan Ausubel	8
Holiday Cookery	12
Traditional Ceremonies in the Home	13
Sabbath	14
Rosh Hashonah	18
Yom Kippur	19
Sukkos	20
Chanukah	22
Purim	26
Shavuos	30
Passover Food	32
Appetizers ( Foreschpice )	55
Soup	64
Soup Accompaniments	77
Salads and Relishes	84
Vegetables	93
Fish	102
Poultry and Stuffings	114
Meats	112
Pancakes and Puddings	134
Flour Foods	141
Breads		155
Cakes, Cookies and Pastries	160
Wine	186
Glossary of Terms	191
Index	195


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520007)
HOLIDAY COOKERY
Culinary customs which have become traditionally associated
with Jewish holidays originated early in Jewish history. The
origins of many food customs have been lost in antiquity.
Others have been traced back to Biblical or early post-Biblical
times.
Our maternal ancestors seem to have understood a sound psych-
ological principle; whether it was wisdom or necessity that
directed their action, the fact remains that certain choice
delicacies were not permitted to become commonplace by every-
day use, but were reserved to enhance the holiday meal. And
in return, the joy and sanctity of the holidays imparted an
unusual spice, a unique flavor to the foods that were eaten.
In time, each holiday acquired its own characteristic delicac-
ies. The "Yom-tov" (holiday) spirit was a complex made up of
Yom-tov clothes, games, songs, and leisure. On Erev-Yom-tov
(the eve of a holiday) savory odors filled the house and the
familiar aroma of some favorite dish reminded the family of the
approaching holiday.
The mothers brought to their preparations of a holiday the
same love and fervor and joyful anticipation that character-
ized their performance of sacred rites or their preparations
for welcoming and honored guest. It is not surprising, bordering
upon sanctity, which elevated them to the status of religious
traditions.
HOLIDAY	HEBREW DATE	MONTH (C.E.)
ROSH HASHONAH	Tishri 1, 2	September---October
YOM KIPPUR	Tishri 10	September---October
SUKKOS	Tishri 15-23	October
CHANUKAH	Kisleve 25---Tebet 2	December
PURIM	Adar 14	March
PESACH	Nissan 14---22	April
SHAVUOS	Sivan 6,7		May--June
TRADITIONAL CEREMONIES IN THE
JEWISH HOME
BEN ZOCHER: Celebration of the birth of a male child held on
the Friday evening following the birth.
BRITH: The rite of circumcision takes place on the eighth
day following the birth of male child.
PIDYON-A-BEN: The redemption of the firstborn son. This occurs
One month after birth.
BAR MITZVAH: Attainment of maturity of boys at the age of thir-
teen and their formal acceptance of the Jewish
faith.
T'NOYIM: The writing of the marriage contract.
CHASSANA: The wedding celebration.
Refreshments for these occasions range for simple "kibbet"
(Hebrew word for treat) such as honey cake, cookies, shtrudel,
nahit (chick peas boiled and salted), wine and whiskey, to
elaborate dinners. Raisins and almonds are usually included
as they have come to symbolize sweetness and plenty in Jewish
life.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520008)
SABBATH


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520009)
The Jewish Sabbath (sundown Friday to sundown Saturday) is
observed as a day of devotion at the synagogue and complete
freedom from work. Since no cooking is done on the Sabbath,
all food preparation is done on Friday. Dishes which are to
be served hot are kept warm over a low flame or pilot light.
An age old custom is to have a guest to share the Sabbath
meals. "For you were once strangers in the land of Egypt."
Exodus 22:20.
Two loaves of Hallah are placed at the head of the table
under a special napkin (Hallah deckel)along with the decant-
er of wine and the Kiddish cup. Hallah, a white bread, was
probably used because it represented something special and
different from the common everyday dark bread. The two loaves
are symbolic of the two portions of manna which fell for the
Sabbath. (Manna is known currently in countries of the Near
East. It falls during June and July from the Tamarisk tree
and is regarded as a delicacy.) The twisted or braided shape
of the Hallah is probably of recent German origin. The coiled
bee-hive shape is reminiscent of the shew bread (or show bread)
which was used for the priestly blessing in the Temple. In
some countries the twist is decorated with thin lengths of
dough symbolic of Jacob's ladder.
Tcholent is the major Sabbath dish of obscure origin which
was undoubtedly invented to meet the need for a warm dish.
It is prepared the day before and kept in the oven until eat-
en. It usually consists of meat, kishke, potatoes, barley
and beans. In small Jewish communities of Eastern Europe of
the last century it was commonly kept in the baker's oven over
night and carried home after Saturday morning services. To
make carrying permissable on the Sabbath, a wire was stretched
around the village and its intactness was guarded zealously
by the Jewish peasants. The wire made the whole village com-
ted. If the fence of "erub" broke the tcholents were handed
from person to person and so deliverd to their owners.

Gefilte fish is a traditional Sabbath and holiday dish.
Its origin is obscure, but it was probably served on the
Sabbath because its preparation took a great deal of time
and the average Jewish housewife could not allow herself the
luxury of devoting so much time to cooking except for such
special occasions. Kugel and tzimmes are other popular
Sabbath dishes. The Sabbath eve meal usually consists of
chicken soup with homemade lukshen (noodles), roast chicken
with helzel(stuffed neck)and other delicacies.

SUGGESTED DISHES
GEFILTE FISH, Page 104-105
CHOPPED LIVER, Page 58
PTZA, Page 59
TCHOLENT, Page 124
HALLAH, I, II, and VARIATIONS, Page 156-157
CARROT TZIMMES, Page 98
BAKER LIMA BEAN CASSEROLE, Page 99
PRUNE AND POTATO TZIMMES, Page 99
MOTHER'S ROAST CHICKEN, Page 117
ROAST CHICKEN, Page 117
STUFFED HELZEL, Page 121
STUFFED KISHKAS, Page 121
CHICKEN SOUP, Page 66
KREPLACH, I, II, Page 81
LUKSHEN, Page 83
KUGELS(of all types) See Pancakes and Puddings
Section, Page 135-139


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520010)
ROSH
HASHONAH
On the new year it is customary to serve apple slices dipped
in a bowl of honey, signifying the hope for a sweet and happy
year. Carrots are served in various forms. They are appropriate
priate because they are sweet and because of the play on words;
the Yiddish for carrot, merin, also means to increase or multi-
ply. Thus, they symbolize the wish for prosperity in the ensu-
ing year. They may be used either in a tzimmes or a carrot
pudding. The Prophet Nehemiah is said to have introduced the
Persian custom of eating sweets on this holiday saying, "Eat
the fat and drink the sweet." From the Babylonians, the
ancient Hebrews borrowed the custom of serving a sheep's head
for the main course of the meal, signifying a year at the be-
ginning, the heat of events to come. Another interpretation
of this custom is that it commemorates Abraham's sacrifice of
a ram instead of his son Isaac.
The Hallah is baked specially in a round shape symbolic of
life without end - a complete year in which there will be no
break or interruption. At no time during this holiday are
any bitter or sour foods included in the menu. The Rosh
Hashonah dinner usually consists of the traditional Jewish
holiday delicacies.
SUGGESTED DISHES
CARROT TZIMMES, Page 98
CARROT TZIMMES AND KNADLACH, Page 130
PRUNE AND POTATO TZIMMES, Page 99
SWEET AND SOUR PRUNE TZIMMES, Page 131
LIMA BEAN TZIMMES, Page 99
CARROTS WITH HONEY, Page 98
POTATO AND CARROT CASSEROLE, Page 97
FARFEL, Page 83
HALLAH, Page 156-157
CARROT AND NUT CAKE, Page 172
HONEY CAKE I, II, Page 169
TAICALACH, Page 185

YOM KIPPUR
This is the Day of Atonement, the High Holy Day of the
year. Fasting is continuous for 24 hours from sundown of
the eve of the holiday to sundown on Yom Kippur day. There-
fore, on the evening before, it is wise to serve no highly
spiced foods. The meal at the end of the fast may be com-
posed of customary Sabbath or holiday dishes.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520011)
Sukkos comes next to Passover in the richness of its sym-
bolism. It is the Jewish period of Thanksgiving which occurs
during the first harvest in Palestine. During this seven day
period Jews also commemorate the forty years wandering of the
Children of Israel in the wilderness after their deliverance
from Egypt. Therefore, they eat, and when possible, sleep in
a Sukkah symbolizes the exile of the Jewish people and their
dependence upon God's protection. In place of a roof the Suk-
kah is covered with leaves and branches sparsely laid to allow
the stars to shine through. Fruits and vegetables are hung
from the roof. The four species (a palm branch, three myrtle
twigs, two willow branches, and a citron) form an important
part of the ceremonial. Benedictions are recited over them and
processional circuits are made with them in the synagogue. The
species are waved in all directions as an acknowledgement of
God's sovereignty over nature.
In addition to fruits and vegetables, taiglach, shtrudel, and
hot tea are appropriate refreshments. East European Jews in-
clude at least one meal of holishkes (stuffed cabbage). This
dish is called galuptze in Russia.
SUGGETED DISHES
TAIGLACH, Page 185
SHTRUDEL (all types) See Cakes, Cookies, and Pastries Section,
Page 160-166
HOLISHKES, Page 126
STUFFED CABBAGE, I, II, Page 126-127
CAKES, COOKIES, AND PASTRIES OF ALL TYPES, Section on Page 160

SUKKOS


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520012)
CHANUKAH


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520013)
Chanukah, or the feast of Lights, celebrates the battle of
the Maccabees (165 B.C.E.) to save the Temple from the tyrant
Antiochus of Syria. In celebrating Chanukah we commemorate
not so much the military victory as the cleansing and rededi-
cation of the Temple after it had been defiled by the heathens.
Only a small bit of oil was found with which to rekindle the
Eternal Light. The miracle of that little cruse of oil last-
ing for eight days, until more could be obtained, is the mir-
acle of the little Jewish nation which outlived all its power-
ful enemies. Therefore, for eight days candles are kindled
in the Chanukah Menorah to remind us of that miracle.
Since this holiday symbolizes the triumph of religion over
paganism, and spirit over force, it is extremely joyful. Af-
ter the father lights the Chanukah candles all join in the
Singing of <u>The Rock of Ages</u> and festivities are held on each
of the eight nights. Most of the games played are based on
the dreydle, a little top with four sides each inscribed with
a Hebrew letter. These letters are the initials of the words
explaining the significance of the miracle. Children are giv-
en gifts on each night, which may be in the form of money
known as Chanukah "gelt".
The traditional food for this festival is potato "latkes"
or pancakes. The origin of this custom is unknown, but might
have something to do with the fact that the holiday comes dur-
ing the winter months and latkes are an appropriate dish for
that season. Any other traditional goodies may also be served
during the celebration. There are also some decorative salads
representing the Menorah which are attractive and appealing
especially to the children.
SUGGESTED DISHES
POTATO LATKES, See Pancakes and Puddings Section, page 136
MATZA MEAL PANCAKES, See Pancakes and Puddings Section, page 137
SOUR CREAM PANCAKES, See Pancakes and Puddings Section, page 136
HEIZENBLOZEN, See Cakes, Cookies, and Pastries Section, page 176
CHANUKAH MENORAH VEGETABLE SALAD
6 hard boiled eggs	14 asparagus tips (green)
black or green olives	paprika
Put the whites of the eggs through a coarse sieve and spread
solidly on a large flat platter as the background. Length-
wise across the center of the platter place 3 asparagus end
to end. Using this as a base, place 8 asparagus vertically
to represent the 8 candles. To form the base of the Menorah,
place under the lengthwise line of tips, in the center, 2 half
pieces of asparagus, side by side vertically, and underneath
these, one asparagus horizontally. Mash the yolks with butter
or mayonaise and form into tiny balls, with a point at one end
to represent the tip of the flame. Sprinkle with paprika and
place above the 8 asparagus candles. Use the remainder of
the yolks alternately with the olives to form a frame around
the edge of the platter.

CHANUKAH MENORAH FRUIT SALAD
3/4 lb. cream cheese	8 marashino cherries
1 can of pineapple spears	1/2 lb. walnut halves
Cover an oval platter with a thin smooth layer of cream
cheese. On this arrange the pineapple spears to represent
a Menorah with candles. Use same method as for vegetable
Menorah substituting pineapple for asparagus. On top of each
candle place a cherry for a flame. Trim the edge of the
platter with the walnut halves.

INDIVIDUAL CANDLE SALAD
canned sliced pineapple	lettuce leaves
bananas	cherries
On a lettuce leaf place a ring of pineapple. Fit half of a
Peeled banana into the hole in the ring. Attach a cherry with
a toothpick onto the tip of the banana to represent the flame.
Serve with whipped cream or fruit salad dressing. Chopped
nuts can be sprinkled around the candle if desired.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520014)
PURIM


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520015)
Of all the holidays Purim has always been celebrated with
the most gaiety. Feasting, exchanging of gifts, gifts to the
poor (shalah manos), and general merrymaking have tradition-
ally characterized the festival. Jewish actors (Purim Shpiel-
ers) would stroll from house to house in the Jewish communi-
ties of Europe dramatizing the events recorded in the Scroll
of Esther adding to the holiday gaiety. Thus, masquerading
has become a manifestation of the Purim observance. In Pal-
estine the celebration of Purim was climaxed with a grand carnival called the "Adloyada."
The Megillah (Book of Esther) is read in the synagogue to
commemorate the devotion of Esther to her people, and the
complete frustration of the villainous Haman when his plot to
exterminate the Jews of ancient Persia resulted instead in his
own hanging. The reading of Haman's name from the Megillah
is greeted by the children with the rattling of greggers (noisemakers) and the stamping of feet. Mordecai, Esther's
uncle, is also glorified because he refused to bow down to
the wicked Haman, and played a heroic role in warning the
Jewish people and preventing their extermination.
The traditional dessert for Purim is Hamantashen, three-cornered cakes filled with poppy seeds or prunes. There are
various interpretations of the shape of this pastry. Some
believe that Haman wore a three-cornered hat, others that he
wore a three cornered purse. In Italy there is a legend that
Haman's ears were shaped like a donkey's, three-cornered and
slightly elongated. The cookies therefore are shaped longer
in that country. In Holland and the low countries, small
cakes in the shape of a man studded with nuts and raisins like
gingerbread men, symbolize Haman.
Other traditional holiday goodies are served on Purim.
Various salads can be arranged to form effigies of Haman or
to glorify Esther.
SUGGESTED DISHES
POPPY SEED COOKIES, Page 177
MOTHER'S PURIM HALLAH, Page 156
HAMANTASHEN, (all types), Page 174-175
JULIA'S NUT AND POPPY SEED ROLLS, Page 178

HAMAN SALAD
On a salad plate a very appetizing Haman can be arranged
using the following fruits: one-half peach for the head
(hollow side down) with shredded
coconut for hair and currants for
eyes, cherry for the nose and
raisins for the mouth. One-half
pear (hollow side down) for neck
and body, decorated with cherry
or raisin buttons. Orange sticks
for arms and two pieces of banana
for legs. Shredded lettuce can
make the grass.

PINEAPPLE CROWN WITH CHEESE
To make Queen Esther with her crown, around the top of a
half slice of pineapple, stick halves of blanched almonds.
Put on center of a small colored
plate and at top of each almond
place l/2 a maraschino cherry
(hollow side down). Form a ball
of white cheese (cream cheese or
cottage) large enough to make a
face. Use currants, raisins, or
cinnamon candies for the features.

CELERY SPEARS
Cut your celery into spears as per illustration and soak
in iced water to which 2-3 Tb. of sugar has been added. The spears may be stuffed with cheese or other spreads, or left
plain.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520016)
Shavuos was originally an agricultural feast marking the
beginning of the wheat season. The first fruits of the
soil were offered to God as a reminder that everything be-
longed to the Lord. Shavuos is also observed as the birth-
day of the Torah. Some Jews pass the entire first night of
the period studying the Torah as a symbol of their apprec-
iation for this gift.
A special hymn, Akdomus, is chanted in the synagogue de-
scribing the wonders of God's creations, the greatness of
the Torah, and the days of the Messiah. The Book of Ruth
is read, giving a description of the agricultural life in
ancient Palestine.
During the Middle Ages, Jewish children began their re-
ligious education on Shavuos, and at present, Reform con-
gregations conduct confirmation exercises for girls on this
holiday.
To commemorate the harvest festival the synagogue and
home are decorated with flowers and plants. Because the
beauty of the Torah has been compared with the nourishment
and sweetness of milk and honey, dairy dishes are custom-
arily eaten on this day. A favorite is cheese blintzes.
An imaginative way to serve these is to arrange them side
by side in paris, and decorate them with lines of poppy
seeds or cinnamon to represent the Tablets of the Law.
SUGGESTED DISHES
CHEESE BLINTZES I, II, Page 149
AUNT LINA'S CHESSE CAKE, Page 173
HONEY CAKE I, II, Page 169
VERTOOTEN, Page 180
CHEESE KREPLACE I, II, Page 151
COTTAGE CHEESE PATTIES, Page 150
LUKSHEN AND CHEESE KUGEL I, II, Page 139
SOUR CREAM PANCAKES, Page 136
SOUR CREAM HORNS OR CORNICOPIAS, Page 182
SORU CREAM DOUGE SHTRUDEL, Page 164
ROUGELACH I, II, Page 181
VERENICKES WITH CREAM CHEESE, Page 154

SHAVUOS


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520017)
HAGGADAH
PASSOVER


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520018)
Passover is one of the holidays most closely associated with
food. This is the celebration of the liberation of the Children
of Israel from Egyptian bondage. Passover is so called because
of the Biblical account regarding the Angel of Death who passed
over the homes of the Israelites when the first-born of Egypt
were slain. This was the tenth plague, imposed upon the Egypt-
ian people by God in order to induce the Pharoh to free the Jews
from slavery. The beginning of Passover is celebrated with a
long and beautiful ceremony, in which all the family joins to-
gether around the Seder table to recount the story of the Exodus
In addition to reading the story and prayers from the Haggadah,
there is much joyous singing. The traditional Seder table in-
cludes a number of symbolic objects which are placed before the
person who leads the service.
1. Afikomen -- Three matzas placed separately in the folds
of a napkin or Matza cover. Two of these matzas symbolize the
two loaves of bread over which the usual Sabbath and festival
benediction is pronounced. The third matza emphasizes the role
of the matza in the Pesach ritual. The meaning of the matza is
threefold. First, it is a symbol of the bread of poverty the
Jews were made to eat when they were slaves in Egypt. Second,
it is symbolic of the great haste in which the Israelites fled
from Egypt, having time only to bring with them unleavened dough.
Third, it is symbolic of the simple life in the desert. Even
their bread was only an unleavened cake.
2. A roasted shankbone -- to commemorate the pascal sacri-
fice of ancient days which each family brought to the Temple.
3. A roasted egg -- which symbolizes the festival sacrifice,
which on Pesach supplemented the pascal lamb.
4. Morar or Bitter Herbs -- to symbolize the bitterness of
Israel's bondage in Egypt. Horseradish is usually used.
5. Haroset or Charoses -- to symbolize the mortar which the
Israelites used in building the treasure cities for the Pharoh.
It also symbolizes the hope of freedom which enabled the
Israelites to withstand the bitterness of slavery. It is made
with grated apple, chopped nuts, cinnamon and wine.
6. A Green Herb (such as parsley, lettuce, watercress)
dipped in salt water -- The greens symbolize the coming of
spring suggesting that just as greens come to life again in
spring, there is everlasting hope of redemption. The salt
water stands for the tears shed by the Jews in their bitter-
ness.
7. Four cups of wine -- One for Kiddish, one following the
recital of the first part of the Seder, one after grace, and
one at the conclusion of the Seder. These four cups symbol-
ize the fourfold promise of redemption.
8. Cup of Elijah -- A special cup placed in the center of
the table, which is not filled until the conclusion of the
meal. When it is filled the door is opened for the coming of
Elijah, the coming of a more perfect world.
A typical Seder menu will consist of: gefilte fish, chopped
liver, chicken soup with matza knadlach, roast chicken with
some type of matza stuffing, vegetables, relish, pesah sponge
cake and tea. In preparation for Passover the home is thor-
oughly cleansed of all chometz (leaven). All kitchen utensils
are either changed or cleansed and scoured. A separate set
of dishes is used for the holiday period. During the eight
days of Passover, meals vary from those of the rest of the year.
All leaven is omitted; dried beans and peas, legumes and grains
may not be used; baking powder, baking soda and yeast are not
permitted. Flour is replaced by matza meal and potato flour.
Because of these dietary rules it has been necessary to devise
ingenious ways of cooking and baking using only those products
permitted. Thus, throughout the ages there has developed a
set of "Pesadik" recipes and special techniques for tasty
cookery during the holiday period. Of course at the present
time, there are many new Passover products on the market which
can be purchased ready made and save the housewife much time
and effort. However, the traditional home-made dishes are
still best loved by all.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520019)
CHAROSES
1 apple pared	1 t. sugar or honey
1/2 C. chopped nuts	1-2 Tb. red wine
1/2 t. cinnamon
Chop or coarsely grate the apple and mash thoroughly with
the remaining ingredients. Beat until the mixture is smooth
and free of lumps. If desired, correct seasoning to taste.

PASSOVER TAIGLACH
Naomi Lansky
Dough:	Syrup:
6 eggs	1 lb. honey
1 Tb. fat or oil	1/2 1b. sugar
matza cake meal	1/2 Tb. ginger
	1/2 lb. walnuts cut
Beat eggs well. Add fat and just enough meal to form a soft
dough. Roll with hands on board sprinkled with meal, into
long strips of finger thickness. Cut in 1/2 inch length pieces.
Bake for 10 minutes at 350° in a floured pan.
Mix honey, sugar, ginger and bring to a boil. Add pieces
of baked dough and nuts. Boil slowly, stirring frequently,
until honey candies in cold water (forms a firm ball). Pour
onto a moistened board, flatten with hands immediately and
when cold cut into squares of desired size.

Passover
KNADLACH

MATZA KLOESE
Ruth Friedman
6 eggs separated	1 1/2 C. water
2 Tb. Chicken fat	1 1/2 C. matza meal
salt to taste
Beat egg yolks. Add fat and salt. Add water and matza
meal, mixing thoroughly. Beat egg whites until stiff and
fold into mixture. Place in refrigerator for 2 hours.
Form into balls with wet hands and drop into boiling water.
Cover tightly and cook approximately 20 minutes.
MATZA KNADLACH, See Soup Accompaniment Section, page 79

MATZA MARROW BALLS
Mildred Carron
2 T. marrow or chicken fat	1/2 C. matza meal
2 eggs	1/2 t. salt
Cream chilled marrow or chicken fat. Stir in well beaten
eggs, add salt and enough meal to make a soft dough. Refrig-
erate about three hours - until firm. Using a teaspoon to
measure, shape into balls about the size of a walnut. Wet
hands with cold water to make smooth balls. Drop these as
you make them into rapidly boiling water or soup. Balls will
float to the top. Shake pot to float all the balls. Turn
down heat, cover pot and cook about 40 minutes. These may
be prepared early and reheated. A bit of parsley or nutmeg
may be added.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520020)
PASSOVER LIVER KNADLACH
Ada Margolis
l/2 1b. liver	1/4 t. pepper
1 onion, sliced	1/4 C. fat
1 1/2 C. boiling water	1 t. salt
1 3/4 C. matza meal	3 eggs
Bake liver and grind with either raw onion, or onion which
has been fried until brown. Pour boiling water over matza
meal, let cool. Add ground liver and onion, eggs, fat, salt
and pepper, and mix thoroughly. Roll into balls the size of
a walnut, drop into boiling salted water and let boil covered
for 20 minutes.

PASSOVER CHEESE KREPLACH OR KNADLACH
Ada Margolis
3 eggs	1 C. dry cottage cheese
3 T. melted butter	1 C. matza meal
3 T. milk	1/2 t. sugar
1 t. salt
Beat eggs, add melted butter, milk and 1/2 t. of salt. Add
matza meal gradually, mixing well, and let stand 10 minutes.
Mix cheese with sugar and remaining salt. Roll dough into balls,
dip fingers into water and press a hollow into each ball. Fill
each hollow with a tablespoon of cheese. Press edges of hol-
low together to hold in cheese. Drop balls into boiling salted
water and boil covered for 15 minutes. Serve warm with sour
cream.

POTATO KNADLACH I
6 medium potatoes	2 eggs
About 3/4 C. matza meal	1 1/2 t. salt
Peel and boil potatoes, then mash, adding salt. When cool,
add slightly beaten eggs, and just enough meal to hold mix-
ture together. Mold into egg shape and drop into boiling salt
water (1 t. salt to 1 qt. water). Boil 20 minutes (covered),
then spread with chicken fat and brown in hot oven, or serve
with browned onions.

POTATO KNADLACH II
3 large potatoes, raw	2 eggs
1 cooked and mashed potato	1/2 t. salt
1 Tb. (rounded) chicken fat	dash pepper
1/3 C. matza meal (approx.)
Peel and grate the raw potatoes and drain off all of the
water by pressing through a cloth. Put this almost dry raw
potato in a bowl, add the rest of the ingredients and mix
well. The mixture should be just firm enough to shape.	If
too soft add a little more matza meal. Shape into small
balls with greased hands. Drop into boiling salted water and
cook covered for one hour. Drain and serve in soup. They may
also be cooked as a dumpling in a meat stew. The inclusion
of the cooked potato is optional, but it does make a much
lighter knadle.	If it is ommitted more matza meal may be needed.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520021)
Passover
MANDLEN

PASSOVER MANDLEN I
Ada Margolis
3 eggs beaten
1/2 t. potato flour
2/3 C. matza cake meal
1/8 t. salt
Beat eggs, cake meal, potato
flour and salt. Knead well.
Roll out on floured board to 1/4
inch thickness. Cut into 1/4
inch cubes. Fry in deep fat
heated to 375° until brown.
Drain and serve in soup.

PASSOVER MANDLEN II
Ada Margolis
1/3 C fat
2/3 C. water
1 1/2 t. salt
1/4 t. pepper
6 eggs
2 C. matza meal
Mix fat, water and season-
ings and bring to a boil. Pour
the liquid gradually onto the
matza meal, mixing well with a
fork. Beat the eggs into the
mixture, and knead thoroughly.
Grease hands, and roll pieces
of dough into marbles about 3/8
inch thick. Place on greased
cookie sheet and bake at 400°
until brown.

MATZA STUFFING
4 matzas	1/4 t. ginger
1/4 C. water	1/4 t. pepper
2 eggs, beaten	1 Tb. chopped parsley
1 t. salt	2 Tb. chopped onion
	celery (optional)
Crumble matzas and sprinkle with water. Add other ingred-
ients. This stuffing may be used for any meat or fowl.
You may bake this in a greased dish and serve as kugel, or
line a roasting dish and bake seasoned serving pieces of
chicken on top.

MATZA AND LIVER PIE
1 lb. liver	1/4 C. matza meal
2 large onions	1/2 C. water
2 1/2 t. salt	2 hard-boiled eggs
1/4 t. pepper	5 eggs
2 Tb. fat	4 or 5 matzas
Broil slices of liver for 15 minutes. Remove outer skin and
veins, then put through a food chopper. Brown onions in fat,
add to liver. Add chopped hard-boiled eggs, 2 t. salt, 1/8 t.
pepper, and mix in 2 beaten eggs. Dip matzas in cold water
for a moment -- do not soften them so that they will break.
Cut them to fit a baking pan, cutting enough for 3 layers of
matzas. Mix matza meal with the water and 3 eggs and remain-
ing salt and pepper and dip the pieces of matza in this mix-
ture. Put a layer of matzas in greased baking pan, then a
layer of liver mixture, alternating until you have 2 layers
of liver and 3 of matzas. Bake in moderate oven (350°) until
brown -- about 45 minutes.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520022)
PASSOVER
KUGEL

APPLE AND MATZA KUGEL
Katherine Meyerstein
6 matzas, broken into pieces	1 apple peeled and diced
2 eggs, separated		1 Tb. butter or shortening
Cover matzas with water then squeeze out as much water as
possible. Add apple and fat. Beat yolks into mixture,
season with salt, sugar and pepper (if desired) to taste.
Beat egg whites until stiff, fold into above gently. Pour
into pre-heated, greased casserole. Bake in slow oven (300°)
about 1 hour until top has an even brown crust.

GRATED APPLE KUGEL
6 large juicy apples, grated	Grated peel of 1 lemon
1/2 C. sifted matza meal	8 eggs separated
1/2 C. sugar	blanched almonds
Stir the sugar and yolks well; add the grated apples, and
mix well. Then stir in the matza meal and the grated lemon
peel. Last add the stiff beaten whites of the 8 eggs. Bake
in an ungreased spring form. Sprinkle a handful of blanched
almonds on top just before baking. Bake at 325° approximately
1 hour.

PASSOVER POTATO KUGEL
Mildred Carron
6 large Idaho potatoes, raw	6 eggs
1/2 C. matza meal	3 T. chicken fat
1 1/2 t. salt and a turn or 2	1 medium onion
of fresh ground pepper
Use a 3 quart oblong glass baking dish. Peel potatoes and
soak in ice water about 1/2 hour. Beat eggs until thick.
This takes about 15 minutes. Have eggs ready when you start
to grate potatoes. Also heat oven to 375 degrees.
Grate potatoes into a large bowl using medium hole grater.
Do not use fine holes or your pudding will be heavy. Grate
quickly, using a long stroke. Grate onion on fine grater.
Mix grated vegetables, seasoning, eggs and add matza meal
last.
Melt chicken fat in baking dish in oven. Pour potato
mixture into hot dish. Bake for 45 minutes to an hour, until
nice and brown.
You may prepare this early in the day and bake your kugel
for half an hour. Finish baking when you are ready to serve.
You may prepare this ahead of time and cover with plastic wrap,
with the wrap touching the pudding in the baking dish. The
big problem with potato kugel is that the potatoes turn dark.
One avoids this by mixing and baking as soon as potatoes are
grated.

MATZA CHEESE KUGEL
2 large onions, grated or	1/2 lb. cottage cheese
chopped fine		2 eggs, beaten
2 Tb. butter	1/2 t. salt
5 matzas
Fry onions in butter until brown and let cool. Crush
matzas, soak in cold water for 2 minutes, drain and press out
well. Mix onions and matzas with cheese, eggs, and salt.
Place in greased pudding dish and bake in hot oven (400°) un-
til brown -- about 1/2 hour.

MATZA PLETZEL
Hannah Zwerdling
2 white matzas	salt and pepper to taste
boiling water	1/2 onion grated (optional)
3-4 eggs
Break matzas into small pieces. Pour boiling water to
cover over them and let stand a few minutes. Then drain the
matzas. Add the eggs and seasonings and beat all ingredients
together very well. Heat frying pan and grease well. Pour
batter in. This should make 4 good sized omelets. Can be
served with jelly, syrup, or sour cream.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520023)
Pancakes

CHREMSEL I
3/4 C. matza meal	4 eggs separated
1 t. sugar	1/4 t. salt
1 1/4 C. hot milk
Pour hot milk over dry ingredients and let stand. Mix in
beaten egg yolks and then fold in stiffly beaten egg whites.
Drop by tablespoonfuls on a hot greased griddle or fry in hot
melted shortening. Fry until brown on both sides. Serve with
powdered sugar, jelly, or fruit sauce.

CHREMSEL II
1 C. matza meal	1 t. sugar
1 C. wine	1/4 t. salt
1 Tb. chopped almonds	4 eggs, separated
Sift the meal into a bowl; bring wine to the boiling point,
then stir it into the meal. Add almonds, sugar, salt, and
beaten yolks of eggs. Add stiffly-beaten egg whites to the
mixture. Drop by tablespoons into deep fat heated to 375° and
fry until brown. Drain on brown paper; sprinkle with powdered
sugar.

PASSOVER CHEESE BLINTZES
Ada Margolis
3 eggs, beaten	1 1/2 C. water
1/2 t. salt		3/4 C. cake meal
To the beaten eggs add the salt, and alternately a little
of the cake meal and water, mixing thoroughly. Pour into a
small hot greased frying pan only enough batter to make a very
thin pancake, tipping pan from side to side. Toss out on a
towel fried side up. Make a number of sheets this way. Place
a heaping tablespoon of cheese mixture on each sheet, fold
sides of sheet in over mixture to form an envelope, and fry
again on both sides until brown.
FILLING:
1 1b. dry cottage cheese	1/2 t. salt
1 egg	1 T. thick cream
1/2 t. sugar
Press cheese through a sieve, add remaining ingredients
and beat until smooth.
MATZA MEAL PANCAKES, See Pancake and Pudding Section, page 137

PASSOVER PINWHEEL MEAT LOAF
Hilma Geffen
Meat 	Filling:
2 lb. lean ground beef	2 matzas - crumbled fine
1 t. salt			3 T. onion - minced
1/4 t. pepper		3 T. chicken fat or oil
2 eggs	1/2 t. salt
3/4 C. matza meal	dash of pepper
1/4 C. tomato Juice	1/3 C. hot water
<u>Topping</u>: optional
	tomato-mushroom sauce
Mix beef with meal, juice, eggs and seasoning. Make a ball
and roll between 2 sheets of waxed paper into a rectangle 1/2
inch thick. Remove top sheet of paper. Spread meat with
filling (which may be prepared in advance). Using waxed paper
as a guide, roll like a jellyroll. Remove bottom paper when
you place this in a greased shallow baking pan. Cover with
sauce and bake for 1 hour in a 350 degree oven. Serves 6-8.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520024)
PASSOVER
CAKES

PASSOVER SPONGE CAKE I
Naomi Lansky
7 egg yolks		l/2 C. potato flour
9 egg whites		1/2 C. Matza cake flour
1 1/2 C. sugar	Juice and grated rind of
1/2 C. water		1/2 lemon
Boil sugar and water until syruppy. Beat egg whites until
very stiff and pour syrup gradually on whites beating until
slightly cool. Beat yolks with lemon juice, add rind and fold
into egg white mixture. Gently fold in the flour, both kinds
-- which have been sifted together once. Pour into <u>dampened</u>
10 inch tube pan, bake 45-50 minutes at 375°. Turn heat down
to 350° ten minutes before end. Remove from oven, invert pan
and cool.

PASSOVER SPONGE CAKE II
Mildred Carron
9 eggs separated		1/2 C sifted cake meal
1 1/2 C. sugar		1/2 C. potato flour
1 lemon (juice and rind)	(sifted together)
Beat 7 egg whites stiff but not dry and gradually beat in
half of the sugar. Beat the other two whites with the egg
yolks and lemon until very light and thick. Beat remainder
of sugar into the yolk mixture. Fold yolk mixture into egg
whites until well blended. Gradually fold the sifted flour
into eggs. Bake in a large ungreased tube pan at 350° about
50 minutes to 1 hour. Turn cake upside down (cake in air) to
cool.

PASSOVER SPONGE CAKE III
Marilyn Krimm
10 eggs
1 C. sugar
1/2 C. matza cake meal
1/2 C. potato starch sift together 3 times
1/2 C. orange juice + 1 T. grated rind
1/2 lemon - Juice + 1 t. grated rind
1/4 C. oil
dash of salt
Have eggs room temperature. Separate eggs and beat whites
until stiff but not dry. Remove beater from whites and beat
yolks. While yolks are beating, fold sifted sugar into white.
Then fold sifted dry ingredients into whites. Add juices and
oil to yolks and beat very light. Fold the yolks into the
whites. Bake in angel food cake pan for one hour in an oven
that has been preheated to 300 degrees. Hang upside down to
cool.
<u>Special Chocolate Variation</u>
Add 2/3 C. melted and cooled chocolate bits and 2 jiggers
of brandy to yolk mixture.
Sister-in-law Bess Neveloff

PASSOVER FRUIT WHIP
1 1/2 C. grated apple, peach	1 1/2 C. sugar
or mashed berries	whites of 2 eggs
1 T. lemon juice and some grated rind
grated rind
Mix all together. Beat until very stiff. Use between
and on top of cakes or for fillings. This makes a lot of
whip.

PASSOVER STRAWBERRY FROSTING
June Weiss
1 egg white	1 1/2 C. sugar
pinch of salt	1 C. strawberries (crushed)
Beat the egg white with the salt. Gradually add the sugar,
beating constantly. Add strawberries and beat until stiff,
(about 20 minutes). Cover cold cake. Garnish with whole
berries if desired.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520025)
PASSOVER JELLY ROLL
1/2 C. Matza cake meal	l/4 t. salt
4 eggs, separated	Grated rind of 1/2 orange or
1/2 C. sugar	lemon
Beat yolks and sugar together until light, add grated rind
and cake meal which has been sifted 4 times. Add salt to egg
whites, beat until stiff and fold into dough. Line a pan about
8 inches by 12 inches with waxed paper, spread dough on evenly,
and bake at 350° for 12 minutes. When done, lift out paper with
cake and place on a damp cloth for a few minutes, then invert
on waxed paper sprinkled with powdered sugar. Remove paper
from cake, spread with jelly (beaten smooth), or boiled frosting,
and roll up. Wrap in waxed paper, then in the damp cloth for
about 15 minutes so that the roll will hold its shape. Remove
wrapping and dust with powdered sugar. Slice.

PASSOVER NUT TORTE
Bea Kahn
9 eggs separated	1 Tb. lemon juice or wine
2 Tb. matza cake flour	1 C. sugar
1 lb. nuts shelled and ground
Beat yolks well. Add sugar, flour, nuts and flavoring,
beating until well blended. Beat egg whites until stiff.
Fold into batter. Bake in ungreased pan 40-45 minutes at 350°.

PESACH ALMOND CAKE
Helen Aminoff
7 eggs (separated)	1/2 lb. ground unblanched
1 C. sugar	almonds
1 T. almond flavoring
Beat egg yolks veil, add sugar, beat till thick.
Beat whites till stiff. Add whites and nuts alternately
to yolks.
Use ungreased spring form and bake at 325 degrees
one hour. Invert pan on a grill and let stand till cool.

PASSOVER NUT SPONGE CAKE
Ada Margolis
2 C. sugar	1 C. Matza cake meal
Juice and grated rind of	1 t. potato flour
1 lemon	2 C. chopped nuts
12 eggs, separated
Add sugar to egg yolks, and beat until thick. Beat egg
whites until stiff, and fold into mixture. Add juice and
grated rind of lemon. Mix and sift cake meal and potato
flour, and fold into mixture gradually. Fold in chopped
nuts and bake in ungreased pan at 325° for 1 hour.

PASSOVER DATE TORTE
Beulah Elving
4 eggs	1/4 t. salt
1 C. sugar	1 lb. pitted dates - cut up
1/4 C. potato starch	2 C. walnuts - cut in large
1/4 C. matza cake meal	pieces
Beat eggs and salt until thick and lemon colored. Add sugar
gradually and beat some more. Sift potato starch and meal
together and mix through dates. Add this to egg mixture and
fold together. Fold in walnuts. Bake in a 9 inch square pan
that has been lined with waxed paper. Bake at 350 degrees
for 40 to 45 munutes. Cool in pan for 15 munutes. Invert
and remove paper. This may be frozen.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520026)
WINE AND NUT CAKE I
Ruth Friedman
7 eggs separated	1 C. chopped nuts
1 C. sugar	1/2 C. matza cake flour
1/4 C. sweet wine
Beat the egg yolks until thick. Gradually beat in the sugar.
Add the wine and mix well. Combine nuts and cake flour and add
to egg mixture. Beat egg whites until stiff and fold into mix-
ture. Pour into ungreased angel food cake pan and bake at 325°
for 1 hour and 15 minutes. Invert pan and do not remove cake
until it is thoroughly cooled.

WINE AND NUT CAKE II
Ceil Pear
12 eggs separated (room temperature)
1 C. sugar	1 t. cinnamon
1 C. wine	1 C. finely chopped walnuts
1 C. matza cake meal sifted
Beat yolks and sugar until thick and lemon colored. Alter-
nately add meal and wine to yolks. Add salt, cinnamon and
nuts. Set aside. Beat whites until stiff. Fold into yolk
mixture. Bake 325 degrees one hour. Use a tube pan. Invert
to cool. Sprinkle with whip if desired.

PASSOVER BANANA CAKE
Ceil Pear
7 eggs - separated	1 C bananas - mashed
1 C. sugar (1/2 + 1/2)	1/2 C. matza cake meal
1 t. salt	1/2 C. potato starch
1 t. vanilla	1 C. walnuts - chopped fine
1 t. lemon juicee
Beat whites until stiff but not dry. Gradually beat in 1/2
C. sugar. Set aside. Beat yolks with 1/2 C. sugar until very
thick. Add salt, vanilla and lemon juice. Beat well. Add
bananas and beat well. Sift meal with starch and fold into
yolk mixture. Fold in whites and nuts. Bake in a tube pan
in 325 degree oven for 45 minutes to an hour, testing with a
broom straw.

PASSOVER DATE CREAM PIE
Claire Bernstein
1/4 C. cocoa	1/2 C. water
3 T potato flour	1/2 C Passover cherry wine
1/4 t. salt	3 eggs
3/4 C. sugar	1 C. fresh dates
1 C. sour cream
Mix cocoa, potato starch, salt and 1/2 C. sugar in a sauce
pan. Add sour cream, stir in water and wine and cook, stirring,
over medium fire, until smooth and thick. Separate eggs.
Spoon a little hot mixture into yolks that have bean broken
with a fork. Mix this into hot mixture and continue stirring
and cooking for 3-5 minutes until spoon is coated. Remove
from heat. Beat egg whites a bit and add 1/4 C. sugar. Beat
until whites form soft peaks. Fold whites gradually into
hot chocolate mixture. Fold in dates which have been chopped.
Dates may be omitted. Turn into Passover pie shell. Chill.
(Ed. You may serve this in custard cups, perhaps over cubes
of dried cake.)


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520027)
Cookies

PASSOVER ALMOND MACAROONS
Ada Margolis
l/2 lb. blanched almonds	2 C. powdered sugar
ground fine	Grated rind of 1 lemon
2 egg whites	2 t. cake meal
Beat egg whites until stiff, mix other ingredients, and fold
in. Grease cookie sheet, dust it thickly with cake meal. Drop
batter by teaspoonsful onto cookie sheet, allowing room for
cookies to spread when baked. Bake at 300° for 15 minutes,
then increase heat to 375° to let macaroons brown. Remove from
pan when cool.

PASSOVER AIMOND COOKIES
Ada Margolis
1/2 C. cake meal	1/2 C. chopped almonds
1/4 C. potato flour	2 eggs slightly beaten
1/2 C. sugar
Mix and sift cake meal and potato flour. Add sugar, almonds
and eggs. Roll dough out on potato flour mixed with sugar.
Cut; and bake on a greased cookie sheet in 400° oven until
brown.

PASSOVER MOCK OATMEAL COOKIES
Ada Margolis
1 C. Matza meal	1/2 C. chopped nuts
3/4 C. sugar	1/2 C. raisins
1/2 t. cinnamon	2 eggs
1 C. matza farfel	1/3 C. melted fat
Mix together the dry ingredients, then beat the eggs and fat
into the mixture. Drop in rough lumps about the size of a
small egg, onto a greased cookie sheet and bake at 350° for
30 minutes. Allow room for cookies to spread.

PASSOVER CREAM PUFFS
Mrs. Sperling
1 C. water	1/2 t. salt
1/3 C. fat	4 eggs
1 C. matza meal
Boil water and fat in sauce pan. While boiling, pour in
salt and matza meal. Continue cooking and stirring until
batter no longer sticks to sides of pan. Remove from fire.
Add unbeaten eggs one at a time beating well after each add-
ition. Drop by tablespoons on a greased cookie sheet. Bake
25 minutes at 450°. Reduce oven to 325° and bake 45 minutes
longer. When cool, cut in half and fill with whipped cream,
custard, fruits, etc., and sprinkle tops with confectioner's
sugar. This makes 12 good-sized puffs. Smaller puffs can be
made by dropping batter from a teaspoon.

PASSOVER CUSTARD FILLING
Mrs. Sperling
2 eggs	1 t butter
3/4 C. sugar	1 lemon
1 Tb. potato flour	1 C. water
Beat eggs well and add sugar and flour, beating it in slowly.
Add juice of the lemon, butter and water <u>slowly</u>. Cook in top
of double boiler until thick, stirring constantly. While
cooling, stir occassionally in order to avoid lumps. Use as
filling in cream puffs.

MATZA MEAL DOUGHNUT
Mrs. Sperling
2/3 C. water	1 Tb. sugar
1/3 C. shortening	3 eggs
1 C. Matza meal	1/4 t. salt
Boil fat, water, sugar and salt. Add the matza meal,
stirring well. Let mixture boil for a second. Remove from
fire and beat well. Add eggs one at a time beating well
after each addition. Take bits of the dough into well greased
hands and roll into balls 2 inches in diameter. Dip finger
in water and make a hole through the center of each ball.
Place on a greased pan and bake at 375-400° for 1 hour. Roll
in confectioners sugar while hot.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520028)
CHOPPED (GEHACKTE) HERRING I
Bessie Levine
several pieces of ready-made	2 apples
pickled herring	1 green pepper
1 medium onion	2 hardboiled eggs
Skin pieces of herring and remove the bones thoroughly. Chop
or put through the meat grinder with remaining ingredients.
If desired seasongs to taste may be added, but usually no other
flavoring is needed.

CHOPPED HERRING II
Roseanna Halman
1 schmaltze herring	1 slice of white bread
1 hard boiled egg	vinegar
1 onion
Clean herring thoroughly and soak over nite. Bone and chop.
Add onion and egg and chop together. Soak bread in vinegar and
add to herring, chopping very well. Serve on lettuce leaf as
an appetizer.

BAKED HERRING
Annabelle Cohen
2 herrings (Schmaltze)	salt, pepper, cinnamon and
1 apple	vinegar to taste
1 slice of bread	4 eggs
1 onion
Fillet herring and soak over night. Chop herring, apple, and
onion. Add bread which has been soaked and squeezed dry. Add
vinegar, salt, pepper, and cinnamon. Beat in eggs. Pour into
an ungreased pie plate. Bake in 350° oven for approximately
45 minutes or until a knife placed in herring comes out clean.
Cut up into squares and serve on crackers as an appetizer.
GEFILTE FISH, as a first course or in very tiny balls as an
hors d'oeuvre, SEE Fish section, p.104-105
MOCK GEFILTE FISH, SEE Fish section, p.105
For recipes for PICKLED HERRING, PICKLED LOX, PICKLED FISH,
and other types of BAKED HERRING, SEE Fish Section. 109-112

CHOPPED
eggplant

CHOPPED EGGPLANT I
Bessie Levine
medium sized eggplant	1 t. oil
1 onion	1 t. vinegar
2 eggs hardboiled	salt and pepper to taste
1 tomato	a few pieces pickled herring
1 green pepper	(optional)
Bake the eggplant in moderate oven. When tender cut into
pieces and put thru the meat grinder along with peel and other
ingredients. Add oil and vinegar along with seasonings and
mix well. If herring is used no salt is necessary. Serve as
an appetizer.

CHOPPED EGGPLANT II
1 large eggplant	Pepper
1 small onion, cut very fine	Vinegar
1 tomato	Olive oil or salad oil
Salt	Sugar
Bake in moderate oven until tender, or boil eggplant. Peel.
If boiled, drain very well. Chop up with onion, tomato, salt,
pepper, vinegar, oil, and a little sugar. Serve cold. Use as
a salad, relish, sandwich spread, or side dish.

CHOPPED EGGPLANT III
Sunnie Tait
1 large eggplant	1 6oz. can tomato paste
4 large onions - chopped fine	2 T vegetable oil
1 green pepper - chopped	salt and pepper
Split eggplant in half lengthwise. Place skin side up
on cookie sheet and broil 15 - 20 minutes until tender.
Brown onions and pepper in oil.. Stir in tomato paste
and simmer about 5 minutes adding a little more oil if
necessary. Stir in chopped and drained eggplant, season
to taste and simmer 1/2 hour. Serve cold. Serves 6-8
as a side dish. You may spread on crackers or mold to
a shape and serve as appetizer.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520029)
PUMPER NICKEL PIE
Katherine Meyerstein
1 large round pumpernickel
chopped hard boiled eggs
chopped herring
minced black olives
chopped egg whites
any other desired combinat-
ion of tasty ingredients
Slice the bread horizon-
tally so you have 4 to 5
round disks 1/2 inch thick.
Trim off crusts. Place the
chopped eggs in a circle in
the center of each disk.
Arrange chopped herring in
a ring around the eggs.
Form a third and last ring
of eggs around the herring.
Mark off or outline the cen-
ter circle with minced black
olives. Mark next ring with
the egg whites and edge the
whole disk with black olives.
Decorate with pimento strips
or squares. Cut into pie
shaped wedges and serve. You
may use any other ingredients
you wish; always keep harmony
of taste and color in mind.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520030)
EGGPLANT CAVIAR
Bess Paper
1 small eggplant -- unpeeled
1 onion	Chop all vegetables fine.
1 green pepper
1 4-oz. can mushrooms
1/3 C. salad oil	Garlic to taste
Mix everything in a pot and simmer for 10 minutes.
Add: salt and pepper	1/4 C. water
1/2 t. oregano	2 T. wine vinegar
1 1/2 t. sugar	1/2 C. chopped stuffed olives
1 6-oz. cam tomato paste	3 T. pine nuts
Stir into mixture in pot. Cover and simmer for 30 minutes.
Chill and serve cold. May be frozen.

CHEDDAR CHEESE APPETIZERS
Halina Silverman
1/4 lb. sharp cheddar cheese grated
2.1/4 C. flour
1/2 lb. margarine	a dash of salt and cayenne pepper
With your hands, knead this all together until smooth.
Divide into 3 rolls for slicing and chill. Will keep in
refrigerator. When ready to serve, slice 1/4 inch thick an
push 1/2 a pecan or an olive slice on top. Bake 5 to 7
minutes at 425 degrees and serve immediately.

CARROT AND CREAM CHEESE SPREAD
Marilyn Krimm
8 oz. cream cheese - room temperature
1 C. Carrots - shredded
2 or 3 minced scallions or 1/2 small white onion
Blend. Fill celery lengths. You may prefer fewer carrots.
Try this with 1/2 cup ground nuts omitting onion or some dill.
CHICKEN LIVERS AND MUSHROOMS ON TOAST, See Meat Section,
page 133.

SWEET AND SOUR MEAT BALLS
Rose Friedman
1 1/2 lb. ground beef	water
1 egg	1 onion grated
1/4 C. bread crumbs	1 piece sour salt
salt and pepper to taste	1/4 C. brown sugar
Mix meat, egg, crumbs, and salt and pepper. Form into very
small balls. Boil enough water in which to simmer the balls
without covering them with water completely. Add sour salt,
grated onion and sugar to water. Cook until seasonings are
mixed and liquid tastes right. Place meat balls in liquid,
and bring to a boil again on top of stove. Then place uncover-
ed in a 350° oven and bake until brown. More water can be
added if necessary to prevent burning. Thicken gravy with
flour. Serve as an appetizer.

SWEET AND SOUR MEATBALLS, for a main course, See Meat section
page 127
SWEET AND SOUR STUFFED CABBAGE, See meat section, page 126-127

HARD BOILED EGGS AND SCALLIONS
Pearl Axelrod
This can be used as a breakfast dish, a snack, or an
appetizer.
6 hard boiled eggs	butter, chicken fat, or
4 scallions	mayonnaise to soften
	salt and pepper to taste
Mash eggs fine and add scallions chopped fine. Soften with
desired fat and season to taste. Mix well and serve on rye
bread, pumpernickel or crackers.

HUNGARIAN SALT STICKS
Peri Berki
8 oz. cream cheese
2 sticks margarine (1/2 lb.)
1 1/4 C. flour
Blend with hands. Divide into 2 balls. Roll each ball into
rectangle 1/2 "thick. Fold over 3 times in both directions.
Roll again into rectangle 1/2" thick. Fold again three times
in both directions. Store in plastic bag in refrigerator
overnight or longer.
To bake, roll into rectangle 1/2 inch thick. Brush with
beaten egg yolk, sprinkle with salt and caraway seeds. With
pizza cutter, cut into 1/2 by 3 inch strips. Bake 350 degree
oven on ungreased cooky sheet for 15 minutes or until brown.
Will freeze.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520031)
Soup


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520032)
CHICKEN SOUP
In the Jewish home chicken
soup is associated with the
Sabbath and other holidays.
Rich clear chicken soup is
called Gilderne and is served
as a "must" at wedding anni-
versaries, especially the
25th and 50th.
4 lb. stewing chicken	2 stalks celery (with leaves)
(include gizzard, heart,	1 bay leaf
neck and feet)	6 peppercorns
1 large onion	Boiled water (1 qt. per pound
1 large carrot diced or sliced	of chicken)
	Salt to taste
Remove excess fat from pieces of chicken. Place chicken,
spices and water in a pot and bring to a quick boil. Turn
heat down and simmer slowly for 30 minutes. Skim carefully.
Add vegetables and continue simmering until chicken is tender.
Correct seasonings.

GREEN PEA SOUP
1 lb. green split peas	1-2 stalks celery (with leaves)
3 qts. water	bay leaf
1 large onion sliced	3/4 lb. soup meat and bones
1 large carrot sliced	salt and pepper to taste
Wash peas in cold water. Rinse and drain well. Place in
pot with rest of ingredients and bring to a boil. Lower heat
and let simmer about three hours. Add more water from time
to time if necessary. Put through sieve, season to taste,
heat and serve.

VEGETABLE SOUP I
Lois Levenson
7 carrots	1/2 Cup Barley
5 pieces celery	3 pieces Parsley
1 Can Tomatoes	Soup bone and meat
1/2 Cup Lima beans	Sugar and salt to taste
Cook meat and bone in a 4 quart pot of water on slow fire.
When water boils remove scum, add lima beans. Cook 1/2 hour,
add vegetables (cut up into small pieces) and tomatoes. Let
cook about 4 hours, until meat is tender, then add barley,
cook another hour and correct seasonings, then serve.

VEGETABLE SOUP II
Mildred Carron
2 to 3 lb. chuck-beef	1/4 C. barley
a good marrow bone	1/2 C. navy beans
1 large onion	1/4 C. dried lima beans
4 sliced carrots	1 large can whole tomatoes
3 ribs celery with leaves	1/2 green pepper
1 dry onion soup mix	alphabet noodles
frozen mixed vegetables-1 cup
Use an 8 quart pot with a good lid. Place meat, bone, onion,
carrots, sliced celery, green pepper and enough water to half
fill the pot, on a high fire and bring to a boil on top of the
stove. Add beans, barley and tomatoes. Check to see that
there is enough water to cover vegetables. Bring to a boil,
place lid on pot, reduce heat and, simmer 4 to 5 hours, stirring every hour or so to see that nothing burns. Remove bones
and loose fat. Add some salt and fresh ground pepper. Add
onion soup mix, noodles and fresh or frozen vegetables, and
bring to boil again. Cover and cook 1 hour. This freezes.
You may use a turkey carcass including gravy and scraps of
meat and dressing instead of fresh beef.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520033)
BORSCHT
A TIME FOR EVERYTHING*
Yudel the waggoner, having banished the bad taste of a long
journey with a dose of brandy, was immersed in a plate of borscht.
"Yudel," his neighbor Yankel yelled into the kitchen, "some-
thing terrible has happened!"
The waggoner continued to eat with intense concentration.
"Yudel, you idiot," cried Yankel, "prepare yourself for bad
news. Something terrible, I tell you has happened!"
Still Yudel ate, unperturbed.
"Yudel," Yankel persisted, "you poor man. Your wife has
just died!"
The news had no apparent effect.
"How can you eat so calmly?" Yankel rebuked him "It isn't
natural."
"Make no mistake!" The waggoner looked up from his plate
for a moment. "When I finish this borscht, will I give a yell!"
Undoubtedly, Yudel must have been eating a nice hot bowl of
borscht made from one of our choice recipes!

BEET BORSCHT I
2 lb. boiling beef (flanken	1 large clove garlic
or brisket)	2 medium size nuggets sour
1 large bunch beets	salt or 1 large lemon (juice of)
2 medium sized onions	salt and pepper to taste
2 Tbsp. sugar
Simmer beef in water to cover generously. Skim to clear.
Add sour salt (or lemon juice), sliced and peeled onions and
beets, sugar, and seasoning. Mince garlic fine, add to broth.
Cook until meat is tender (about 3 hours). Correct Seasonings.
Serve hot.

BORSCHT II
Lois Levenson
1 lb. lean beef and bones	1 #2 can tomatoes
1 bunch peeled beets and	2 Tb. sugar
greens	1 Tb. or more salt
1 whole onion	Juice of 1 lemon
Put pot of water on to boil with meat. Cover. When boiling,
remove scum. Add beets, greens, salt, and onion. After 1/2
hour, add tomatoes, lemon juice, sugar, and more salt if neces-
sary. Cook 1-1/2 to 2 hours.

BORSCHT III
Anya Finkel
1 to 1-1/2 lb. soup beef	1 can tomatoes (1 lb. 4 oz).
1 C. large lima beans	1 can beets (1 lb. 4 oz.)
1 medium onion	Salt to taste
2-1/2 qts. water	Juice of 1 lemon
	Sugar to taste
Cook first four ingredients for about 1-1/2 hours or until
meat is tender. Add tomatoes, beets, and salt and cook 20
minutes more. Add lemon juice and sugar and cook about five
minutes more.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520034)
UKRANIAN	borscht
	Mme, Pargment
2-3 qts. water	1/2 head small cabbage
soup meat and marrow bones	1 large potato cubed
2 carrots	lemon juice to taste
6 beets	sugar to taste
2 onions	salt and pepper to taste
fat	fresh dill flowers (optional)
	I can tomatoes (optional)
Cook soup meat and bones in water to make a stock. Grate
carrots, beets and onions and fry lightly in a little fat.
Add vegetables to soup stock. Grate cabbage. Add cabbage and
potato to soup. Add lemon juice, sugar, and salt and pepper.
Cook 2-3 hours on a low heat, Tomatoes can be added if desired.
When serving cut up a little dill in each plate and pour the
hot borscht over it. This gives it an added flavor.

COLD MEATLESS	borscht
	Bessie Sirota
1 bunch young beets and greens juice of 1 lemon
2 qts. water	sugar to taste
salt to taste	2 eggs
Wash beets and greens thoroughly. Boil in water for 15 min-
utes. Remove beets and grate. Put grated beets back into
liquid. Add salt to taste, lemon juice, (more if desired) and
sugar to taste. Simmer slowly another 15 minutes. Allow to
cool 1/2 hour. Beat eggs well in a large bowl. Pour a small
amount of warm borscht into the beaten eggs slowly, stirring
constantly. Continue pouring borscht into the egg mixture,
remembering to stir constantly in order to prevent the egg from
curdling.
Serve cold with sour cream, boiled potato, chopped scallions
or hard boiled eggs as desired.

CHERRY borscht
1 qt. cherries	pinch of baking soda
5 C. water	3/4 C. sugar
1 stick cinnamon	1 t. cornstarch
salt to taste
Wash and pit cherries. Add water, cinnamon, salt, soda
and sugar. Boil until cherries are well cooked. Dissolve
cornstarch in a little water and add to soup to thicken.
Chill in refrigerator before serving. Can be served with
hot boiled potatoes.

Potato

MOTHER'S POTATO SOUP
6 medium potatoes - cubed	2 t. salt
2 large onions, sliced thin	4 T. butter
2 ribs celery - sliced	1 qt. each milk and water
with leaves
Saute onions and celery in butter in a sturdy pot. Do not
brown. Add water, salt and potatoes. Cook until potatoes are,
soft. When ready to serve, add milk and heat just to boiling
point. Serve to taste with a bit of sour cream, lemon, fresh
ground pepper or perhaps paprika.

ZAYDI'S POTATO-FARFEL SOUP
Bess Paper
6 potatoes - pared and cubed	2 T. margarine
4 oz. square egg farfel	1 small onion - sauteed
3 or 4 sprigs feathery dill	2 qt. water
Place potatoes, farfel, salt, pepper and dill in water and
bring to a boil. Turn heat low and simmer 1 hour. Add
margarine and onion. Mix to blend and serve hot.

POTATO SOUP
3 large potatoes diced	1 t. salt
1 medium carrot	pepper to taste
1 onion	1 t. butter
1 parsnip	l/4 C. egg barley
2 large stalks celery	sweet cream or milk
1 qt. water
Place all vegetables in water and add salt and pepper.
Bring to a boil and add butter and barley. Cook 30 minutes
or until barley is tender. Remove from fire and add gradually
as much sweet cream as desired. Serve hot.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520035)
SWEET AND SOUR CABBAGE SOUP I
Lee Kaplan
2 lb.s. shredded cabbage	4 qts. water
1 lb. meat bones	1 piece sour salt or lemon juice
1 can tomato sauce or tomatoes Few raisins
	Salt, pepper, sugar to taste
	Onion and garlic minced (optional
Put ingredients in pot and cook about 2 hrs. Correct season-
ings.

SWEET AND SOUR CABBAGE SOUP II
Ruth Friedman
1 med. cabbage, shredded	1/4 C. sugar
1-1/2 lb. flank meat	1 t. sour salt (citric acid)
1 medium onion	Salt
1 apple
Sprinkle salt over cabbage and rub in. Pour boiling water
over cabbage and let stand for an hour. Drain. Combine with
rest of ingredients, cover with water, and cook over slow flame
until meat is tender. (2 hours). Remove apple and onion and
serve.

SAUERKRAUT SOUP
Rhea Kish
Beef bone (and meat if desired)l	large can sauerkraut
water, approximately 3-4.C.	salt and pepper to taste
small can of tomatoes	sugar (optional)
Cook beef and bones in water for 1 hour to get a good beef
stock. Add sauerkraut and tomatoes. Cook for another hour.
Season and add sugar if a sweeter soup is desired.

CABBAGE SOUP
1 cabbage, cut small	1 turnip, cut small
5 cups meat stock	1 stalk celery, chopped
3 carrots, cut small	4 potatoes, diced
2 parsnips, cut small	2 to 4 tomatoes, chopped
Add cabbage to meat stock, and when cabbage is half tender,
add carrots, parsnips, turnip, and celery. Cook until nearly
tender. (1 hour). Half hour before serving, add diced
potatoes, and 2 or 3 minutes before serving, add chopped
tomatoes. Simmer a few minutes. Serves 4 to 6.

TCHAV
1 lb. Tchav (sorrel)	1 qt. boiling water
2 t. salt	2 eggs
1 pinch pepper
Wash sorrel thoroughly and chop well. Add 1 t. salt and
boiling water. Boil 5 minutes. Beat two eggs, add 1 t. salt
to the eggs. Pour 2 cups of the hot sorrel mixture into the
cold beaten eggs, stirring constantly until well mixed. Pour
the egg mixture back into the remainder of the sorrel mixture
and cool. Serve cold with sour cream. May also be served with
hot boiled potatoes. Serves 4 to 6.

TASTY SCHAV
1 lb. schav or spinach	juice of 2 lemons (1/2 C.)
2 medium potatoes - diced	2 t. salt
2 ribs celery, cut fine	4 eggs + 1 1/2 C. cold water
4 scallions or an onion sliced thin
2 sprigs fresh dill
2 quarts of water
Wash greens until clean and tear into pieces. Cook over low
heat with onions, dill and potatoes until potatoes are very
soft. Remove dill and add juice and salt and pepper. Cook
slowly for 10 minutes. Beat eggs until blended with cold
water. Stir about 3 cups of hot soup into eggs beating
continually until well mixed. Add soup slowly so eggs do not
curdle. Add remaining soup. Serve cold. May be kept for
weeks. Serve with some sour cream if you like. You may use
sour cream or more potatoes for thickening instead of eggs.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520036)
CREAMED SWEET AND SOUK BEAN SOUP
Mrs. Kish
2 C. navy beans	1/2 pt. sour cream
salt	1 Tb. vinegar
water to cover	1/4 C. sugar (or to taste)
1-2 Tb. flour	milk
Cook beans in salted water until tender. Mix sour cream and
flour in a large bowl. Add the hot bean mixture very gradually
to prevent curdling. Beat constantly. Cool. Add vinegar and
sugar to taste. When the flavor is satisfactory add enough
milk to make the mixture like a soup. Reheat and serve hot.
Or else cool and serve cold; it is good either way. Serves 4.

LENTIL SOUP
Maizie Gurin
2 onions
1 bay leaf
Salt and pepper to taste
2 Kosher frankfurters
1 clove garlic
1 C. Washburn's quick-cooking
lentils (if using regular
lentils, soak overnight)
6 C. boiling water
Dice and brown onions. Combine with rest of ingredients
except frankfurters and garlic. Cover and bring to a boil.
Let simmer for 3/4, of an hour, adding more water if necessary.
Fry frankfurters cut in eighths in fat to which clove of
garlic has been added. Brown thoroughly. When very crisp,
add to soup and cook 1/2 hour longer. Remove bay leaf before
serving. Serves 6.

BARLEY
SOUP
Jean Fine
1/2 to 1 lb. chuck	1 stalk celery
Neck bone, if desired	1 onion
2 or 3 Tb. Barley	Parsley
2 Tb. baby lima beans	2 or 3 medium
1 carrot	potatoes
Cook all ingredients except potatoes in 1 1/2 qts.
boiling water for 2 hours. Add potatoes cut in small
pieces and continue cooking until potatoes are done.
Season to taste.

UNCLE HARRY'S FAVORITE BARLEY SOUP
Maizie Gurin
1/2 C. medium barley	1 onion
1/2 C. lima beans	1 carrot grated
1/4 C. split peas	4-5 dried mushrooms
1 lb. soup meat and bones	Salt and pepper to taste
Thoroughly wash barley, lima beans, and split peas. Cook
with meat about 1 hr. in 2 qts. of boiling water. Add cut-up
onion, grated carrot, and mushrooms. Simmer another 1 1/2 hrs.
Add salt and pepper. Stir occasionally while cooking; soup
will be quite thick when done.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520037)
FISH SOUP
6 small perch	salt
4 bay leaves	4 hard-cooked eggs, chopped
8 peppercorns
Cook fish in salted water to cover until tender, with bay
leaves, peppercorns, and salt. Strain, and save the liquor.
Remove bones, skin, and then flake the fish. In soup bowls,
put a layer of fish and then a layer of chopped egg. Repeat
layers. Reheat the fish liquor and pour over the fish and
egg. Serves 6 to 8.

FISH PUREE
12 C. water	1 leek
1 carrot	3 bay leaves
1 stalk celery	salt
10 peppercorns	4 lbs. fresh water fish in
1 onion	season
1 parsnip	1 Tb. lemon juice
Bring water to a boil and add carrot, celery, peppercorns,
onion, parsnip, leek, bay leaves, and salt to taste. Simmer
15 minutes; add 2 pounds (only) of the fish and cook until it
begins to fall apart. Force this through a sieve. Return to
the pot; bring to a boil and add the remaining 2 pounds of raw
fish, which has been sliced. Cook for about 15 minutes. Add
lemon juice before serving. Serves 8 to 10.

LOX AND POTATO SOUP
Bea Kahn
1/4 lb. lox (tail ends or	4 medium potatoes diced
thick slices) cut in chunks	1 1/2 qts. water
2 large onions, diced	salt and pepper to taste
	1 C. light cream or milk
Saute onions in butter until light brown. Add lox, potatoes,
and water, and cook for about 1 hour or until ingredients are
soft. Add cream or milk, reheat and correct seasoning.
If desired the soup can be made a day in advance, and stored
in the refrigerator. Add the cream or milk just before serving
and reheat.

"Soup could offer a variety of surprises - kreplach
(meat balls with sport jackets) exquisitely shaped by the
sculptural genius of a balabusteh, who always planned the
structure of the kreple so that a tempting bit of the bur-
ied treasure should show through, just enough to make the
mouth water.
Or soup might contain lukshen, which hung like weeping
willows over the flaishigeh leffel. The excess lukshen could
either be sucked into the mouth or bitten into.
The sought-after prize in the soup, like the trinket in
the cracker-jack box, was a small unhatched egg which Momma
had found in the chicken. There was one egg and eight
children. What a strain on Mamma's impartiality to choose
the deserving child. The ayeleh usually went to the girls
because of some folk-theory about fertility." Taken from
<u>Meet The Folks</u>, by Sammy Levenson, published by the Citadel
Press, New York.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520038)
MATZA KNADLACH
Lois Levenson
3 eggs	1 C. matza meal
5 Tb. chicken fat, melted	1 t. salt
1/2 C. cold water
Beat eggs, add melted fat, cold water, and matza meal, mix-
ing constantly. Then add salt and chill the mixture for 1/2
hour in refrigerator. Wet hands and make balls the size of
golf balls out of the matza meal mixture. Drop balls into
boiling water one at a time. Watch closely, and when water
begins to boil again, cover pot and boil 1/2 hour. <U>Do Not</U>
remove cover until ready to serve, as air entering the pot
makes the knadlach lose their fluffiness.
If an even lighter knadlach is desired, separate the eggs
and fold in the stiffly beaten whites as the last step before
refrigerating the mixture.

MATZA AND MARROW KNADLACH, See Passover Section, page 37.

MATZA KLOESE, See Passover Section, page 37

LIVER KNADLACH, See Passover Section, page 38

LIVER DUMPLINGS
Roseanna Halman
1 lb. beef or calves liver	1 egg
2-3 cloves garlic	2 Tb. flour
1/2 t. salt	1/4 C. farina (or enough to
	make mixture firm enough to
	handle)
Put liver and garlic through meat grinder. Add other
ingredients and mix well. Form into balls the size of golf
balls and drop into boiling chicken soup. Simmer 20 minutes,
uncovered. Serve with the soup.

MANDLEN OR SOUP NUTS I
3 eggs	2 C. flour (approximate)
2 Tb. oil	1 t. salt
Mix all ingredients, using only enough of the flour to make
a soft dough just firm enough to roll with the hands. Divide
the dough into 2 or 3 parts and roll with hands into ropes
3/8 inch thick. Cut into 1/2 inch pieces. Place on well
greased cookie sheet and bake at 375° until golden brown.
Shake pan occasionally or turn nuts, so that they brown
evenly on all sides.

MANDLEN II
Bessie Levine
2 eggs	pinch of salt
2 Tb. chicken fat or oil	flour
3 Tb. Water
Beat eggs well, Add fat and water. Mix. Add enough flour
to form a dough that can be rolled in the hands. Take small
pieces of dough at a time and roll with floured hands into
long strips about 1/4 inch thick. Cut into pieces 1/2 inch
long. Bake on greased pan at 375° until brown on all sides.
Or else fry in deep fat until golden brown. Drain all grease
off. Serve as a garnish in chicken soup.
PASSOVER MANDLEN, See Passover Section, page 40.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520039)
KREPLACH *
A Jewish mother was much distressed over the problem of her
young son who was afraid to eat the popular dish known as
kreplach. She took the boy to a psychiatrist
for consultation. After hearing the case,
the doctor said, "Now, Madam, this is very
simple. Take the boy home, take him out
into the kitchen, and show him how kreplach
are made. This should probably eliminate
the condition."
Hopefully the mother followed his advice.
On the kitchen table she put
out a small square of dough
beside which was a small
mound of prepared chopped
meat. "Now," she said, "there
is nothing here you should
mind." The lad beamed and
nodded encouragingly. The
mother then put the meat in
the center of the dough and
folded over one corner. The
boy smiled and all seemed to
be going well. She folded
over the second corner and
the third. The boy was nodd-
ing, and the experiment seemed
to be progressing most favor-
ably. Then she folded over
the fourth and final corner;
whereupon the boy groaned
and muttered
"Oi, KREPLACH !"

what that psychiatrist didn't know was to tell her to try
one of our recipes for kreplach. They're guaranteed to not
only remove all phobias, but to nurture a life long affection
for the luscious dish as well!

KREPLACH I
Bessie Ginsburg
1 C. flour	1 large or 2 small eggs
1/2 t. salt
Mix together. Knead until elastic using a floured board.
Add flour until smooth and elastic and dough does not stick.
Roll out on floured table and cut into 2-2 1/2 inch squares.
<U>Filling:</U> Grind meat, beef or turkey that has been cooked. To
1 1/2 cup meat, add 1 egg and some browned onion and season.
Place 1 t. filling in each square. Dampen edges with water
and fold over to seal in a triangle. Then pull opposite points together to make a hat. Boil in salted boiling water 10 minutes
Using a wooden spoon, stir to prevent sticking. Drain in a
colander and rinse in cold water. Serve in chicken soup or
roast in oven, or heat in oven with salt and chicken fat.
Makes 2 dozen.

KREPLACH II
Naomi Lansky
<U>Dough:	Filling:</U>
1 egg	Any cooked meat or leftover
Approx. 2/3 C. flour	(1/3 lb. meat is sufficient)
1/4 t. salt	1/2 t. onion juice
	Finely chopped celery
	Schmaltz to hold meat together
	Salt and pepper to taste
To make dough, beat egg slightly. Add salt and enough flour
to make a stiff dough. Knead well on floured board. Invert
bowl over dough and let stand, covered, 1/2 hr. Roll cut as
thin as possible. Dough should not be sticky but not too
brittle. Cut dough into squares. Fill and pinch ends together.
Cook in boiling salted water for 15 minutes. Drain.
To make filling, grind meat very fine, add other ingredients,
season to taste, and mix well.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520040)
noodles
PHILOSOPHY WITH NOODLES *
Once a proposal of marriage was brought to a man who was
simple minded. Poor fellow! He had no idea how to behave
in the company of others. And so, in order to save him from
embarrassment, his father, who was a man of the world,
cautioned him as follows: "When you visit the bride for the
first time you no doubt will not know what to talk to her
about. Therefore, if you want to make a good impression on
her, here's my advice. First, begin talking about love. Then
you can touch on family affairs. You can wind up with a
little philosophy."
The groom nodded gravely and replied that he understood
perfectly. Then, with his father's blessings he went off to
make his first call on his intended.
At first he felt great constraint because the girl's parents
were present, but when they left from motives of delicacy, he
relaxed somewhat. Then, remembering his father's counsel, he
suddenly asked the girl, "Do you love noodles?"
"Sure," she answered in surprise, "Why shouldn't I love
noodles?"
After a moment of silence, he continued, "Do you have a
brother?"
"No, I have no brother."
The groom rejoiced --- he had safely weathered his father's
first two instructions, had talked about love and family
matters. Now he still had to philosophize a bit. "Kaleh,"
he asked, furrowing his brow, "if you had a brother, would
he have loved noodles?"
A silly question -- if he had ever tasted THIS lukshen;

NOODLES OR LUKSHEN
1 egg	pinch of salt
2/3 C. flour (approximate)
Mix ingredients and knead until dough is soft and elastic.
Roll out on a floured board to a thin even sheet. Let this
dry until it is no longer sticky, but not so dry that it will
be brittle. Fold into a flat narrow roll about 2 inches wide,
with a sharp knife cut crosswise into very fine strips and
toss them up lightly to separate them. Spread on a board or
cloth to dry thoroughly before storing in jars. For broad
noodles cut in strips 3/8 inch or 1/2 inch wide, separate and
dry.
To prepare noodles, boil in salted water until tender.
Drain and add to soup. Or the noodles may be cooked for
15-20 minutes directly in the soup if preferred.

FARFEL OR EGG BARLEY
1 egg	pinch of salt
1 C. flour
Knead all ingredients into a hard firm ball of dough.
Grate on a medium fine grater. Spread on a board to dry
thoroughly before storing away in jars. When needed, cook
in boiling salted water for 30 minutes. Drain and serve in
chicken soup, or as a side dish with fat and gravy. The
farfel may be boiled directly in the soup if preferred.

EINLAUF OR TRIFLACH
(egg drop for soup)
1 egg	pinch of salt
2 Tb. flour
Beat all ingredients together until smooth. Pour into
boiling soup from a spoon, letting it fall either in small
drops or in a steady thin stream which will give the effect
of noodles. Cover and boil for five minutes.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520041)
SALADS AND
RELISHES


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520042)
RADISHES AND CUCUMBERS IN SOUR CREAM
Cucumbers	Sugar
Radishes	Salt
Sour Cream	Pepper
Wash firm radishes and cucumbers and slice thin. Cover with
sour cream. Season to taste. Serve very cold.

SLICED CUCUMBER AND ONION SALAD
Bea Kahn
2 cucumbers	2 Tb. tarragon vinegar
1 onion	1/4 t. pepper
1 t. salt	1 C. sour cream
garlic
Slice cucumbers very thin. Slice onion and place in bowl.
Sprinkle with salt and put in refrigerator for 1/2 hour.
Drain off water. Rub salad bowl with garlic and place
vegetables in it. Pour over the vinegar and pepper. Add
sour cream and toss lightly. Serves approximately 5 as a
relish or side dish.

CUCUMBERS WITH SOUR CREAM
12 cucumbers	Mustard
6 hard-cooked eggs	Sugar
Lettuce, broken in chunks	Salt
1 C. sour cream	Pepper
1/2 t. vinegar
Clean and peel cucumbers and cut in cubes. Slice eggs
lengthwise in four pieces, removing the yolks. Place cucumbers,
sliced egg whites, and lettuce in a bowl and pour the following
dressing over them. To make dressing: rub egg yolks through a
sieve. Add slowly and mix thoroughly with sour cream, vinegar,
mustard, sugar, salt, and pepper to taste.

BEET AND HORSERADISH RELISH
Bea Kahn
1 small can beets	1/2 C.	prepared horseradish
1 Tb. sugar	1/2 C.	vinegar
2 t. salt	1/2 C.	canned beet juice
1/8 t. pepper
Drain beets and reserve 1/2 C. of the juice. Dice beets
and add seasonings, horseradish and vinegar. Add enough
beet juice to cover the mixture. chill over night. Serves
6.

BEET AND HORSERADISH MOLD
Estelle Cohan
1 Pkg. lemon Jello	1 Bottle Red Horseradish
1 Can Large beets, (whole)	4 Tb. vinegar
Make jello with beet juice and water. Add vinegar. Drain
horseradish, add to above with grated beets. Turn into mold
or individual molds rinsed in cold water, and chill.

BEET SALAD WITH HORSERADISH DRESSING
Bea Kahn
1/4 C. sour cream	1 small can diced beets, chilled
2 Tb. grated horseradish	1/2 C. diced celery
1/8 t. salt	lettuce
3/4 t. sugar	2 hard-boiled eggs (optional)
Combine cream, horseradish, salt and sugar. Chill. Drain
beets, add celery. Arrange beets on a lettuce leaf and sur-
round with egg slices, if used. Top with the horseradish
dressing.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520043)
BEETS IN SOUR SAUCE
Bea Kahn
1 can beets	1/4 C. vinegar
2 Tb. butter	1/4 C. cream
2 Tb. flour	1 t. sugar
1/2 C. beet juice	1/2 t. salt
	pepper to taste
Dice beets. Melt butter, add flour and pour on beet juice.
Add other ingredients and mix well so that sauce is smooth.
Heat beets in sauce. Serve as a relish with dairy or fish
meals.

EASY ROSSEL --- EASY HORSERADISH
Muriel Cohen
Passover is not complete without fresh red horseradish.
This is easier to prepare than you think.
To make rossel, a sour condiment used to color and flavor
horseradish and salad dressings, place a few raw beets in a
jar of water. Cover the open jar with a thin piece of cloth.
Place this in a warm place for about 3 weeks. Peek at it every
2 or 3 days so you can pick off any mold that may form. When
this sours, it is ready to use. Beets from rossel are good in
borscht.
And now for the horseradish. Select a fresh root. Clean it
and cut it into pieces. Shred this with a bit of water in
your blender. If you did not make rossel, use a little salt
and vinegar to make it tasty. If you made rossel, add a little
at a time until you like the color and it suits your taste.

HERRING SALAD
Bea Kahn
6 medium beets cooked	4 pickled herrings
3 raw sour apples	1 Tb. vinegar
4 cold boiled potatoes	1/4 t. salt
1 onion chopped	1/8 t. pepper
3 dill pickles	mayonaise to moisten
3 hard boiled eggs
Dice all ingredients. Add enough mayonnaise to hold together
and toss lightly. Serve on lettuce leaf.

VEAL SALAD, RUSSIAN STYLE
2 apples	2 C. cubed veal (cooked)
1 large cucumber, peeled	Mayonnaise
3 small boiled potatoes, peeled
1 small dill pickle
Cut ip apples, cucumber, potatoes, and dill pickle. Mix
with the cubed veal. Add mayonnaise. Mix well and chill.

EGGPLANT MARINADE
Lotte Catford
1 Large eggplant	1/2 t. salt
1/2 C. white vinegar	2 t. sugar
3 C. water	1 handful fresh dill, chopped
1/4 t. black peppercorn	or 2 t. dried dill
3-5 whole bayleaves	3/4 C. mayonnaise
Mix dill with mayonnaise in salad bowl and set aside.
Cut eggplant into sticks about finger size, first cutting
into slices. In a pot large enough to hold eggplant, make
the marinade. Bring to a boil vinegar, water, spices, salt
and sugar. Add eggplant. Marinade should cover eggplant.
Do not stir. Cover pot and simmer until eggplant <U>begins</U> to
look transparent. Remove from fire and turn into colander
to drain and cool. Remove bayleaves to use for decoration.
Do not remove peppercorns.
When cool, using a wooden spoon, carefully fold through
mayonnaise, decorate with bayleaves and enjoy.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520044)
NICKELEH -- PICKELEH *
An old Jewish woman on Essex Street stuck her hand into the
brine of a pickle barrel and fished out a large pickle. "How
much is this pickle?" she asked.
"A nickel," answered the dealer.
"A nickel is too much," she said and put the pickle back into
the barrel.
She fished in the barrel again and came up with a little pickle
"How much is this little pickeleh?" she asked in a tender voice.
"That pickeleh?" answered the shop-keeper, just as tenderly.
"Only a nickeleh!"

DILL PICKLES I
Minnie Sharfman
1 peck small cucumbers	1 piece fresh horseradish
6 1/2 qts. water	Garlic
1 pint vinegar	Dill
1 scant C. salt	Black pepper (whole)
Scrub cucumbers. Soak 2 hrs. in cold water. Bring to a boil
the water, vinegar, salt, and horseradish. Pack wide-mouthed
jars with cucumbers, using plenty of fresh dill and two large
cloves of garlic in each jar. Pour hot brine over cucumbers
to fill jar. Makes 12 qts. These keep firm all winter.

PICKLES

DILL PICKLES II
Muriel Cohen
9-10 quart jars for canning
1 peck very fresh cucumbers - not too large
30 cloves of garlic
fresh dill - enough to yield 30 flowers
pickling spices
coarse salt
In bottom of each jar (I run mine through dishwasher),
put a clove garlic and a dill flower. Fit in tightly
one upright row of cucumbers. Add a garlic and dill.
Fill jar with cukes. Add a garlic and dill plus a
scant teaspoon mixed pickling spices and a heaping table-
spoon coarse salt. Fill jars with cold water from the
tap. Close but not tightly. Allow to stand out over-
night. Adjust water if necessary, seal tightly and
store in a cool place. New dills will be ready to eat
in about 8 to 10 days. For well done, wait three weeks.
Yes, they will keep - unless you eat them all.

MR. LEVINE'S DILL PICKLES
Bessie Levine
cucumbers	10 qts. hot water
garlic	1 C. coarse salt
flowers of dill	1/2 C. sugar
mixed pickling spices	1/2 C. vinegar
Sterilize canning jars and cover with rings. Place the
cucumbers in the jars. To each jar add 1 to 2 cloves of garlic
cut up, 1 t. mixed pickling spices and flowers of dill on top
of the jar.
Make a brine by dissolving all the ingredients in the second
column in the hot water. The vinegar is added not for flavor,
but because it is supposed to keep the pickles firm. Pour the
brine over contents, filling jars up to the neck. Dip covers
in boiling water and cover tightly. Keep in a cool dark place.
Will be ready to eat in 3-4 weeks. These will keep all winter.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520045)
PEPPER RELISH
Rose Friedman
6 green peppers	1 C. sugar
12 sweet red peppers	vinegar
12 onions
Grind peppers and onions and let stand in boiling water
to cover for 5 minutes. Drain off all the water and add
enough vinegar to cover ingredients. Add sugar and cook for
15 minutes. Place while hot in sterilized jars. Seal tight-
ly. Can be used as soon as desired, and will keep all season
if the jars are air-tight.

RED CABBAGE AND GREEN PEPPER RELISH
June Weiss
1 head red cabbage	vinegar
2 green peppers	water
2 large onions	salt and pepper to taste
Slice cabbage and peppers into strips. Slice onions. Place
in a crock or jars. Dilute vinegar with water for desired
strength. Add salt and pepper to taste. Pour over cabbage
filling jars to the top. Cover and place in refrigerator
and allow to stand several days before serving.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520046)
ELAINE'S SPINACH PIE
Bess Paper
Defrost 10oz. package chopped spinach
6 eggs beaten
6 T. flour
1 pint carton cottage cheese and chives
8 oz. shredded Cheddar cheese
Mix together thoroughly. Place in two 10 inch pie plates
that have been heavily greased. Bake 350 degr. for 1 hour.
You may freeze this.

RATATOUILLE
Halina Silverman
1/2 lb. small pickling onions	2 cloves garlic crushed
1 small cauliflower	1 C. white vinegar
3 green and 3 red peppers
3/4 C. vegetable oil
5 C. catsup
1 eggplant - peeled
Scald and peel onions. Boil 2 quarts salt water and add
onions. Bring to boil and add remaining vegetables. Bring to
boil again and drain immediately.
Make sauce of catsup, oil, vinegar and garlic. Bring to
boil, add vegetables and simmer, stirring gently for 5 minutes.
Pour into sterilized jars and seal. May be enjoyed all year.

QUICK RATATOUILLE
Mildred Carron
1 eggplant - peeled	2 yellow summer squash
2 carrots	2 green peppers
2 zucchini squash	dash garlic powder
1 small cauliflower	14 oz. catsup
Cut vegetables in big chunks. Place in heavy bottom kettle with a tight cover. Pour catsup over all. Bring to a boil
and cook covered at high heat for 10 minutes only. (After it
boils, I reduce my stove to number 4 of 7 heats) Remove from
burner but do not remove cover until cool.
Serve hot or cold. Will freeze and also keep in refrigerator

SWEET AND SOUR CABBAGE
1 medium head of cabbage	2 Tb. vinegar or lemon juice
(red or white)	salt and pepper to taste
2 sour apples	2 Tb. flour
2 Tb. fat	4 Tb. brown sugar
Shred cabbage fine. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Add
apples sliced. Heat fat in pan and add cabbage mixture. Pour
boiling water over it to cover and cook until tender. Sprinkle
with flour, add sugar and vinegar. Mix well and cook a little
longer until flavors are well blended.

CABBAGE AND APPLES
1 medium head of cabbage	1 Tb. caraway seeds
2 sour apples peeled	3 Tb. fat
1/2 onion	2 t. salt and paprika to taste
Cut cabbage fine and soak in salt water for 10 minutes.
Drain. Heat the fat, add the cabbage, apples cut up, onion
sliced and the caraway seeds. Add salt and paprika to taste.
Cover tightly and cook slowly for 1 hour.

BROCCOLI CASSEROLE SUPREME
Ella Bermar
1/4 lb. butter or oleo	1 can cream of mushroom soup
1/2 C. chopped onions	2 boxes frozen broccoli
2 ribs celery, chopped	1-4 oz. can mushrooms, chopped
1 C. bread crumbs	4 oz. grated cheese
cheddar
	Saute onion and celery in butter. Arrange broccoli on
bottom of buttered 2 quart casserole. Mix bread crumbs and
cheese, reserving 1 cup for topping. Mix remainder of bread
crumbs with other ingredients. Pour over broccoli. Top with
bread crumbs and dot with butter if you like. Bake 350 degree
oven for 45 minutes.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520047)
ROSE'S GEFILTE POTATOES
Suzanne Saraoff
6 medium potatoes	1 egg
2 onions		matza meal or bread crumbs
1 Tb. chicken fat	1 t. salt
left over meat (optional)	pinch of pepper
Cut tops off pared potatoes and set aside. Core the insides
of the potatoes to make a hollow shell.
Chop together the insides of the potato, and the onions. Add
fat, seasonings, egg, and enough meal or bread crumbs so that
ingredients hold together. Stuff the potato shells with this
mixture and cover with the tops which were set aside. Place
in well-greased pan and bake at 400° 30-45 minutes. The out-
side of the potatoes can be brushed with melted fat so they
get golden brown. If a meat roast is being made the potatoes
can be baked right in the roasting pan.
If there is left over meat, it can be chopped into the
filling with the rest of the ingredients.
POTATOES STUFFED WITH MUSHROOMS
1/4 lb. mushrooms	salt
1 Tb chopped chives	pepper
1 Tb. bread crumbs	4 large baking potatoes
1 egg, slightly beaten	1-1/4 C. mushroom stock
1 Tb. butter
To make stuffing, wash and peel mushrooms. Cook 15 minutes
in salted boiling water. Drain and chop, reserving stock.
Combine mushrooms and chives, bread crumbs and slightly beaten
egg. Season to taste. Peel potatoes. Cut off slice lengthwise
at top and set aside. Scoop out pocket in potato. Fill with
stuffing and replace top. Place potatoes in baking dish and
pour in mushroom stock, add butter, and bake in hot oven (425°)
until done, about 45 minutes. Baste frequently with stock.
Serves 4.
RUSSIAN STYLE POTATOES
Bea Kahn
4 medium potatoes	Boiling water
1 small onion minced	2 Tb. butter
salt and pepper to taste	3 Tb. sour cream
Pare potatoes and cut in cubes. Place in saucepan, add
onion, salt and pepper. Cover with water and simmer until
tender. Drain. Add butter and sour cream and cover. Shake
pan gently. Let stand a few minutes before serving. Serves
POTATOES IN SOUR CREAM
2 lbs. small potatoes	2 t. flour
salt	1 C. sour cream
3 Tb. butter
Select uniform small potatoes. Scrape off skin and rub
with salt. Wash in cold water, drain and place in heavy
saucepan. Add salt, cover, and cook over low heat for 10
minutes. Shake constantly to prevent scorching. Drain off
any liquid that forms. Cream butter and flour, add to
potatoes and stir in sour cream. Mix well, cover and cook
over low heat until potatoes are done. Add more sour cream
if needed. Serves 4 to 6.
POTATO AND CARROT CASSEROLE
6 medium-sized carrots	1 onion
4 large white potatoes	1 egg
4 large sweet potatoes	1/2 C. flour
1 t. baking powder	1/2 C. sugar
4 T. shortening	Salt and pepper
Dice carrots; cut sweet potatoes in good sized pieces;
season with salt and pepper; add 1/2 cup sugar and boil in
a covered kettle for about twenty minutes. Peel 4 large
white potatoes, grate them, season with salt and pepper;
add grated onion, flour, baking powder, egg, and shortening.
Pour mixture into the center of carrots and sweet potatoes
which have been put in a greased baking dish. Bake in
medium hot (400°) oven for about two hours or until done.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520048)
VEGETARIAN PATTIES
Bessie Ginsberg
1 C. dried bread crumbs	Grind the following:
4 eggs	1 C. carrots
1/4 t. salt	1 C. celery
a shake of pepper	1 large onion
a shake of garlic salt	1 C. walnuts
Mix together. Form into flat patties. Fry in oil or bake
350 degrees for 40 minutes.
CARROT TZIMMES
Mildred Carron
2 large sweet potatoes cut	1/2 C. brown sugar
	in large chunks	salt and pepper to taste
2 large bunches of carrots	1 1/2 lb. fat brisket of beef
	sliced thin
Arrange sweet potatoes and carrots in dutch oven or roaster.
Sprinkle sugar and seasonings over top. Place brisket on top,
fat side up. Cover and either roast in oven (275°) or add a
little water and cook over a low flame on top of stove. Add
more water during cooking if necessary. Simmer or bake for
about 4 hours. This is even better the next day when reheated.
CARROT TZIMMES WITH KNADLACH, A main course, See Meat Section,
page 130
PRUNE AND POTATO TZIMMES I
Molly Rossin
1/2 lb. meat (flanken or chuck)	1/2 C. brown sugar
1 onion	1/2 lb. prunes
water	2 t. salt
4 medium white potatoes	1 1/2 Tb. Flour
1 small sweet potato
Place meat and onion sliced at bottom of pot with water to
cover. Simmer for 1/2 hour. Add vegetables, fruit, and
seasonings and cook on a low flame for 1 hour longer. When
ingredients are tender, make a mixture of the flour and a
little water and add to the stew to thicken. Use judgment
as to amount of flour necessary to make a thick gravy. The
tzimmes should be thick and not soupy. This recipe will
serve 4 as a <u>side dish.</u> It is good served with chicken or
other fowl, but is too rich to eat as a main course.
PRUNE AND POTATO TZIMMES II
Roseanne Halman
1 lb. prunes soaked overnight	1 lb. beef brisket
	in 3 C. cold water <u>or</u>	salt and pepper
1 lb. tenderized prunes plus	5 med. sweet potatoes
	3 C. water	1/2 C. sugar
	1 Tb. lemon Juice
Place prunes, water and meat in kettle, season with salt
and pepper. Simmer 1 1/2 hours. Pare and slice sweet
potatoes into ovenproof dish. Place meat and prunes on
top of potatoes and pour liquid over it. Sprinkle sugar and
lemon juice on top. Cover and bake in moderate oven (350°)
about 40 minutes or until potatoes are done. Serves 4 to 6.
SWEET AND SOUR PRUNE TZIMMES, A main course, See Meat Section,
Page 131
BAKED LIMA BEAN CASSEROLE
Ella Herman
1 lb. dried lima beans	1 C.	sour cream
3/4 C. butter	1 t.	salt
3/4 C. brown sugar	1 T.	dark molasses (optional)
1 T. dried mustard
Wash beans and soak for at least 1 hour. Cook in water to
cover until tender - .about 1 1/2 hours. Drain. Pour into
2 quart casserole or bean pot. Mix remaining ingredients.
Pour over beans. Blend. Bake at 350 degrees for 1 hour.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520049)
EGGPLANT BAKED WITH TOMATOES
Ruth Brooks
Slice two unpeeled eggplants crosswise 1/2 inch thick.
Drop into boiling salted water and cook for 3 minutes.
Transfer to colander to drain thoroughly. Arrange slices
in a large, flat, lightly oiled baking dish or cooky
sheet. Spread each slice thickly with thick tomato
sauce (see below), and sprinkle breadcrumbs and chopped
parsley over all. (Sprinkle, optional, a few drops of oil over top). Cook uncovered, in a 300 degree oven for
about 1 hour. Eat hot or cold!
<u>Thick Tomato Sauce:</u>
1 onion - chopped (or scallions)	1/2 t. salt
1 T. oil	1/2 t. sugar
1 lb. ripe tomatoes (3-4)	pepper, freshly ground
	chopped	2 turns
fresh chopped herbs of your choice - parsley, celery
leaves, basil and/or coriander
saute onions in oil until transparent. Add other
ingredients and simmer until tomatoes are soft, thick
and dry.
LECHO
Muriel Cohan
A Bulgarian Jewish dish popular in Israel
8 medium tomatoes peeled and cut in pieces
3 large green peppers sliced thin
2 large onions sliced thin
These vegetables should be about equal in bulk.
4 T oil	a bit of salt and pepper
4 T raw rice	1 or 2 eggs beaten
1/4 t sugar
Cook peppers and onion in oil until limp but not
brown. Stir in tomatoes and bring to boil. Add rice
and seasonings, stir, cover and cook until rice is
ready. With heat lowered, this takes about 1/2 to 3/4
hours. Remove from heat. Add eggs stirring rapidly
so eggs do not congeal. This serves 8 generously as a
side dish. To use a main dish, add more eggs.
NAHIT (CHICK PEAS)
Soak chick peas over night.
Drain and cook in salted wat-
er, to cover, until tender.
Drain, and add pepper to taste
and additional salt if necessary.
Serve either hot or cold.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520050)
FISH


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520051)
The exact origin of gefilte fish is not known. It means
literally in German Stuffed fish. It may have originated
in Holland, or it may be of Russian or Polish origin, where
it is commonly referred to as "Jewish fish" on hotel and
restaurant menues. In Rumania and the other Balkan countries
the whole fish is served with the filleted portion chopped
and stuffed back between the skin and backbone. In America
the filleted fish is chopped to a pulp and formed into balls.
Although it probably originated as an economy dish, gefilte
fish has a delicious flavor and is a treat on holidays, at
parties, and anytime.
GEFILTE FISH I
1 1/2 lbs. white fish	1/3 C. water
1 1/2 lb. pike	1 egg
3 medium onions	1 Tb. crackermeal
2 medium carrots	1 t. salt
1 parsley root	1 t. sugar
1 celery root and some	1/4 t. pepper
leaves
For the best results clean, fillet, and salt fish the night
before and keep in refrigerator. Keep the head, skin, and all
the large bones. Prepare a 4 quart pot with 2 onions sliced
fine, carrots cut in round slices, parsley and celery roots
cut in small pieces, and one quart of cold water. Add the
fish bones and skin, and let boil about ten minutes before
adding the fish patties.
Chop the fish and the remaining onions fine, adding a little
water at a time. Next add egg, crackermeal, salt, sugar, and
an 1/8 teaspoon pepper, chopping altogether. Fish should feel
sticky against chopper, for best results.
Form into patties and place into pot carefully. When all
the fish is in the pot, water should just cover it. Add the
remainder of pepper and more salt if necessary after cooking
one hour. Cook covered for two hours, shaking the pot once
in a while. Uncover and cook for half hour longer so there
will not be too much gravy. Remove fish from pot. Set aside
to cool. Strain gravy. When cool, place in refrigerator to
chill.
GEFILTE FISH II
Hannah Zwerdling
3 lbs. fish - combine white	Little matza meal
fish, trout, pike, or	1 or 2 carrots
pickerel	3 stalks celery
2 onions	Salt and pepper to taste
2 eggs
Scrape fish from bones. Slice 1 onion, carrots, and little
celery into bottom of pot. Grind rest in with fish. After
fish is ground, add eggs, 1/2 C. water, little matza meal,
(enough to make mixture workable), and salt and pepper. Mix
thoroughly in electric mixer. Wet hands and make fish mix-
ture into balls. Drop into boiling water. There should be
enough water to cover all the fish. Cook 1 1/2 hours on low
heat. Variation: Instead of boiling, the raw balls may be
fried in deep fat.
MOCK GEFILTE FISH
Estelle Cohan
1 can pink salmon (tall)	4 Tb.(heaping)matza meal
3 eggs, separated	Salt and pepper to taste
3 Onions, (large)	2 C. water
3 carrots	Salt and pepper
Combine salmon juice, 2 sliced onions, sliced carrots,
water, salt and pepper and simmer in a large shallow pan
1/2 hour. Remove skin and bones from salmon. Mash, mix
well, with grated onion, egg yolks, matza meal, 1 Tb.
water, and seasoning to taste. Add beaten egg whites.
Form into balls, wetting hands with cold water to facilitate
handling. Place in pan, cover, and simmer about 40 minutes.
Serve with Beet and Horseradish Mold, page 87.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520052)
BOILED FISH POLISH STYLE
Mrs. Fajans
1 onion sliced	1 large carp (or pike, white
1 carrot sliced	fish etc.)
1 stalk celery	1 to 2 Tb. fat (use only if
salt and pepper to taste	fish is a dry type)
	1 to 2 sliced potatoes (optional)
	Boil vegetables, salt and pepper with water to make a tasty
bouillion. Add the fish sliced in chunks, or whole if prefer-
red. If using fat, add it at this time. Cook 1/2 to 1 hour
until fish is soft. Remove fish and boil down the soup until
there is less quantity and there is a rich gravy. Can be
served hot, or cold. Gravy will jell when chilled.
RUSSIAN FISH STEW
1 lb. white fish	3 large onions sliced
1 lb. pike	1 bay leaf
1/2 lemon	1 T. salt
6 potatoes sliced thick	1/3 t. pepper
2 carrots sliced	sprinkling of paprika
1 rib celery sliced	on fish in pot
	Buy fresh fish. Two pounds will serve 2 or 3 people. Wash
and slice fish crosswise into serving pieces. So not bone.
Squeeze lemon over fish and refrigerate at least 1/2 hour. In
a heavy pot with a tight cover, arrange fish and cover with
water. Arrange vegetables starting with onions and ending
with potatoes. Cook slowly 1 1/2 to 2 hours. Serve hot or
cold.
TROUT WITH LEMON SAUCE
Mrs. Ben Kaplan
2 to 3 lb. trout	2 eggs
2 onions	3 Tb. sugar
salt to taste	juice of 2 lemons
pinch of white pepper
Boil fish with onions, salt and pepper in water to cover.
Cook approximately 30 minutes. Beat eggs with sugar and lemon
juice. Remove broth from fish and mix into the egg mixture.
Pour back over fish and cook for 5 minutes on low heat until
broth is slightly thickened and lemon colored.
PAPRIKA BAKED CARP
Bea Kahn
2 lb. carp	1/2 pt. sour cream
1/2 C. sliced onions	1 Tb. paprika
salt and pepper to taste	3 Tb. butter
Place cleaned fish in buttered baking dish. Top with
sliced onions. Blend paprika, seasonings and sour cream
and pour over fish. Bake at 325° for 1 hour. Baste frequent-
ly with melted butter.
BAKED MACKEREL WITH VEGETABLES
June Weiss
2 lbs. mackerel, filetted	2 stalks celery, diced
2 potatoes, sliced very thin	3 Tb. butter
1 tomato sliced	juice of 1 lemon
1 onion sliced	paprika
	salt and pepper to taste
Place fish in an oblong baking dish. Sprinkle with lemon
juice. Put onion slices over fish, then tomato slices and
diced celery. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Dot
with butter. Cover with the very thin potato slices. Sprinkle
with paprika. Bake in a 350° oven for about 3/4 of an hour or
until potatoes are tender and slightly browned.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520053)
CREAMED MACKEREL AND POTATOES
Suzanne Sarnoff
1 mackerel (approx.1 lb.)	1/2 C. light sweet cream
2 onions, sliced	1/4 C. milk (if necessary)
2 potatoes, sliced	salt, pepper, and paprika
butter	to taste
Place sliced onions and sliced potatoes in a well-battered
baking pan and dot top generously with butter. Put under
the broiler and leave until both onions and potatoes are nicely
browned; turn ingredients so that both sides get brown.
Remove from broiler and place the mackerel, which has been
split in half and filleted, on top of the potatoes and onions,
skin side down. Season the fish lightly with salt and pepper
and sprinkle generously with paprika. Dot with butter and
place under the broiler again until the surface of the fish
is well browned. Remove from broiler, pour cream over ingred
ients and place in a 350° oven for 1/2 to 3/4 of an hour, or
until potatoes are tender and gravy is thick. If necessary
during baking time, the milk can be added to prevent the
fish from becoming too dry. Serves 2-3.
LOX AND POTATO CASSEROLE
8 medium potatoes	2 eggs
1 large onion, chopped	1/2 t. salt
1/2 pound lox	1/8 t. pepper
4 C. milk
Butter baking dish and line bottom with thinly sliced potatoes.
Dot with onion and lox. Repeat layers until baking dish is 3/4
full. Beat together milk and eggs; add salt and pepper, and
pour over potatoes. Add more milk if necessary to cover. Bake
in slow oven (300°) for about 1-1/2 hours until browned. Serves
6 to 8.
PICKLED HERRING I
Mrs. Ben Kaplan
2-3 large salt herring	1 t. mixed pickling spices
	(preferably "milter" type)	a few bay leaves
2 C. water	sugar to taste
1/2 C. white wine vinegar	4 large onions, sliced
	1 lemon sliced
Soak herring over night or 24 hours. Change water as fre
quently as convenient. Skin herring and out into chunks.
Make enough liquid to cover the herrings by boiling water
and vinegar in the proportions given above, doubling or tri
pling amounts if necessary. Add pickling spices, sugar and
bay leaves to boiled mixture. Cool.
Place herring in sterilized jars and cover with the liquid.
Add the sliced onions and lemon slices to each jar. Cover
tightly and place in refrigerator. Let stand 3 to 4 days
before eating. Will keep 1-2 weeks.
If milter (male) herring is used, remove the white organs
from inside the herring (the milt) and mash through a strainer
and add to the vinegar and water mixture. This will make the
liquid a creamy white and add excellent flavor.
PICKLED Herring II
6 matjes herring	8 large onions
6 milt of herring	1 C. vinegar
1/2 box mixed pickling spices	1/2 pint sour cream
Skin the herring and clean inside. Soak overnight. Pound
the milt on a board thoroughly. Place in a large jar and add
vinegar and spices. Slice onions. Slice herring into six
pieces and add with onion to vinegar and spices. Add sour
cream and let stand three days in refrigerator. Serve cold.
Keeps only 1-2 weeks.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520054)
PICKLED HERRING WITH CREAM
Dorothy Gerard
10 milter herring	8 bay leaves
1/4 to 1/2 C. vinegar	1 Tb. peppercorns
1 Tb. sugar	1/2 pint sour or sweet cream
4 large onions sliced	1 lemon sliced
Soak herring over night, changing water a few times. Clean
thoroughly, skin and bone (optional). Cut into 1-2 inch
pieces. Mash the milt (white organs within the herrings)
through a strainer with a few tablespoons of the vinegar. Add
herring, onions, bay leaves, peppercorns, lemon and remaining
vinegar. Place in jars, cover tightly, and let stand in cool
place a few days. Remove from jars, and mix cream well into
the sauce, adding more if necessary to make enough sauce to
cover herring. Now place in sterilized jars. Seal so that
jars are air tight. Place in refrigerator. Will keep 1-2
weeks.
PICKLED LOX
2 onions	1 C. vinegar
1/2 lb. lox (cut in thick	Sweet cream to taste
slices)	sugar to taste
1/3 box mixed pickling spices	1/2 C. water
Soak lox in water to cover and add a little milk; let soak
1 hour. Boil together the vinegar, water, and pickling spices.
strain this mixture and add sugar to taste.
Drain lox and wash in cold water. Slice onions and place
slices in well-washed jar. Add lox to the jar and pour half
of the vinegar solution over it. To the other half of the
vinegar solution, add sweet cream and pour over the lox to
fill the jar. Let stand 3 to 4 days before serving. Will
Keep about 2 weeks.
PICKLED FISH
Freda Best
5 lb. fish, (trout, pickerel,	1 C. vinegar
and pike; usually one of	1 to 2 t. mixed pickling spices
each)	1/2 to 3/4 C. sugar (to taste)
water to cover fish	1/2 lemon sliced
1 large onion sliced	2 large onions sliced
salt and pepper to taste
Clean fish thoroughly, salt it lightly, and out up into 1
to 2 inch chunks. Do not remove bones. Place in 6-quart
pot, add enough water to cover fish, 1 large onion, and salt
and pepper. Boil until fish is tender but not so soft as to
fall apart. Cool.
Drain off liquid and add to it approximately 1 C. vinegar,
mixed pickling spices and the sugar. Boil this mixture
until spices mix, approximately 20 minutes. Allow to cool.
Line a glass bowl or crock (do not use metal) with the
pieces of fish. Place slices of lemon over fish and the
2 sliced onions in between layers of fish. Pour liquid over
it. Cover bowl and place in refrigerator. Leave for 3 to 4
days before serving. Liquid should jell. This will keep for
a couple of weeks, "if it lasts that long!"
SWEET AND SOUR FISH
Freda Best
2 lbs. white fish	a few raisins
1 C. cider vinegar	8 whole pieces allspice
2 C. water	a sprinkle of cinnamon
1 onion	5 ginger snaps
1/2 lb. brown sugar
Boil fish and sliced onion in vinegar and water. Add
sugar, raisins, allspice, and cinnamon. Cook 1 hour. Add
the gingersnaps about 10 minutes before fish is finished.
Cool, refrigerate and serve cold. Gravy will jell.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520055)
BAKED HERRING
2 herring (schmaltze)	1 or 2 slices enriched bread,
1 onion, chopped	soaked in milk
2 eggs, beaten	1 uncooked apple, grated
mashed potatoes
bread crumbs
Soak herring in water for several hours. Remove all bones
and chop very fine. Brown chopped onion in butter and add to
herring. Place in a casserole and cover with well-beaten eggs,
bread soaked in milk, the grated apple, and a layer of mashed
potatoes. Top with bread crumbs and bake in moderate oven 30
minutes. This makes a good main dish for meatless meals.
BAKED HERRING WITH ONIONS
3 herring (schmaltze)	butter
2 C. sliced onions	sweet cream
Soak herring several hours, changing water several times.
Pour boiling water on onions and bring again to a boil. Drain.
Skin herring, bone them, and cut in pieces to serve. Put in
small greased casserole. Place drained sliced onions over her
ring, dot with butter, and bake in moderate oven (350°) until
onions are lightly browned. Add a little sweet cream and bake
10 minutes more. Serve with baked potatoes.
BAKED HERRING, as an appetizer, See Appetizer Section,
page 56.
EGGS WITH HERRING
6 oz. fillet matjes herring	1/4 C. butter
6 eggs	Chives, if desired
Chop herring; mix with slightly beaten eggs. Melt butter in pan, and when very hot, add egg mixture and chives. Stix while cooking. This makes a good breakfast dish.
LOX AND EGGS -- SUNDAY BREAKFAST DISH
Pearl Axelrod
3 onions	6 eggs
3 slices lox
Chop onions. Saute in oleo or butter. When onions start to get brown, add lox, cut up fine, and fry until lox is crisp. Beat eggs well, add to onions and lox. Pry until eggs are desired consistency. Serves 3-4. (Lox may be soaked in milk overnight or for several hours to make it less salty and more tender).


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520056)
POULTRY
and
STUFFINGS


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520057)
In Jewish homes chicken has
become the accepted Sabbath
and holiday main dish. This
tradition probably began in
times of stress when access-
ibility and economy were prime
factors.
The Jewish housewife has been
taught by her mother through
the ages how to utilize all
parts of the chicken in various
tasty recipes, always keeping
economy in mind.
Only the young tender chickens were roasted, but Mother had
a method for the tougher birds. These were usually used to
make chicken soup, or cut up and stewed in a fricazee. Nothing
was wasted; the giblets were added to the fricazee or put into
was wasted; the gibles were added to the fricazee or put into
a stuffing which made the meal go further. And who hasn't
tasted a slice of scrawny piece of neck skin? Chopped liver and
its French counterpart pate de fois gras are a gourmet's delight.
a way any part of the chicken. And even the chicken fat is
rendered and treasured by the Jewish housewife down to the last
precious drop!
RENDERING CHICKEN FAT
Cut all fat and excess fatty skin from a goose or chicken
into very small pieces about 1/2 inch in size. Place in a
sauce pan, cover and cook over a low flame, stirring often.
When the skin particles turn golden brown and start to crisp,
add some sliced onion and stir again. Remove from the fire
when the onions begin to brown. Strain into a crock or bowl,
pressing off all fat from the grieben, which should be crisp
and brittle. The fat should be stored in jars and kept in a
cool place. The grieben may be served as a garnish for chopped
liver or passed as a relish.
MOTHER'S ROAST CHICKEN
Deborah Freedman
Use serving pieces of chicken. You may select fryer
or roaster parts. Season each with salt, pepper, paprika
and a bit of garlic salt.
Arrange in a blue granite roaster. On top add cut-up onions
and a bay leaf. To 4 pounds of chicken, use 3 large onions.
roast covered for 1/2 to 3/4 of an hour in a 350 degree
oven until a gravy forms. Remove chicken from pan. Add
to the gravy enough catsup to make a rich brown sauce, you
may need a little water. Remove from roaster. Arrange
chicken one layer deep, spooning a little gravy over each
piece. You may have to roast this twice if you have too
much chicken. Roast uncovered in a 425 degree oven until
it looks a tasty dark reddish brown - about 10-15 minutes
remove roster. Turn oven down to 300 degrees.
CHICKEN CASSEROLE A LA REHOVOTH
Esther Bree
4 C. canned tomatoes (plum)	1 large green pepper, cored,
1 chicken - serving pieces	seeded and cut into cubes
salt and pepper	1 clove garlic
1 T. oil	1 t. oregano
1 C. Onion, coarsely chopped	1/2 C. dry white concord wine
1 chicken bouillion cube dissolved
in 1/2 C. boiling water		1/2 C. mushrooms - sliced
1. Place tomatoes in saucepan and reduce to 2 cups.
2. Sprinkle chicken with salt and pepper. Heat oil in
skillet, add chicken pieces skin-side down and brown on
all sides. Carefully pour off all fat.
3. Scatter onions, mushrooms, green pepper and garlic
between chicken. Sprinkle with oregano.
4. Add tomatoes, wine and chicken broth and stir to dissolve
and blend particles on the bottom of the skillet. Cover
and cook 1 hour. Serve with rice, noodles or what you
like.
ROAST CHICKEN
Freda Kaufman
4-5 ld. frying or roasting	1/2 C. water
chicken	1 clove garlic minced
1 large onion minced	1 Tb. Salt
1 C. canned tomatoes	1/4 t. pepper
1 Tb. chicken fat	1/2 t. paprika
Mix all ingredients together and put over chicken. Roast 2 hrs. in uncovered pan at 325o, basting every 20 minutes.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520058)
CHICKEN PAPRIKA
Mrs. Kish
4 lb. frying chicken, cut	1 small tomato
in serving pieces	fat
3 large onions, diced	1/2 c. water
1 t. imported paprika	salt
Saute onions in fat until glazed. Add the water and cook
slowly, uncovered, until the water evaporates and onions begin
to melt. And paprika and then chicken <u>immediately</u> so that the paprika doesn't burn, and salt to taste Cut tomato into small pieces and add. Cook with cover slightly off until tender. Stir often and add water as necessary. Serve with dumplings or noodles. Serves four.
BUBIE'S MEAT BALLS WITH CHICKEN GIBLETS
Bess Paper
chicken giblets - seasoned
1 lb. hamburger - seasoned and formed in balls
3 T. oil
2 t. paprika
1 onion - chopped
4 carrots - diced
4 ribs celery - sliced retaining leaves
2 cloves garlic - minced
Combine chicken parts with oil and brown in pot. Add all
but meat balls. Cover with some water and bring to a boil.
Add meat balls, cover pot and cook until giblets are done-
about 1 hour.
EGG DUMPLINGS
Muriel Fisher
1 egg	1 Tb. water
salt	flour
Beat egg and water until frothy, add salt to taste, add
enough flour to make stiff batter. Put by teaspoonsful into
rapidly boiling salted water. Let cook 15 minutes. Drain in colander. Place in bowl and pour Chicken Paprika over.
GALUSHKA -- DUMPLINGS
Mrs. Kish
These are to be served as a base for chicken or veal paprikas.
This is a typical Hungarian dish.
2 1/2 C. flour	2 1/2 t. salt
2 eggs	about 1/2 C. water
Put flour in bowl; add salt and eggs. Add water gradually. Beat well. Consistency should be sticky.
Put about half of dough on a board and slice off small
pieces with a table knife which has been dipped in water.
Drop pieces into boiling salted water. When the dough rises
to surface, boil for 10 minutes. Drain. Repeat for remain-
der of dough.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520059)
CHICKEN IN ORANGE SAUCE
Marilyn Krimm
2 chicken cut in serving pieces
1/2 C. raisins (light, dark or currants)
6 oz. package slivered almonds
11 oz. can mandarin oranges
6 oz. can frozen orange juice
1 T. cornstarch (Ed. For Passover, use potato starch)
1/2 t each of cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg
salt
tabasco
Sprinkly chicken with salt brown in 2 T. oil. Remove
to baking dish. Cover with raisins, almonds and oranges.
In browning pan add seasonings and stir to a smooth paste
You may have to add a bit of water. Add cornstarch to oran
juice to blend and then add this to browning pot. Stir all
till smooth and bring to a boil, stirring constantly. When
this is thickened, pour over chicken and bake covered 350
degr. For 3/4 hour. Uncover and cook till brown and tender
Serve with rice. Tasty cold for lunch next day.
CHICKEN WITH CHICK PEAS
Bess Paper
1 chicken - cut in serving pieces
2 large onions - sliced
1 t. cumin	Add Later:
1 t. paprika	1 t. turmeric
salt and black pepper	1 can chick peas
Rub seasonings into chicken. Saute in oil in dutch oven
until golden brown.
Sprinkle with 1 t. turmeric. Add 1 can chick peas, drained.
Add a little water - not too much. Cover pot and simmer until
chicken is done. This will take about one hour more or less,
depending on size of chicken.
POULTRY STUFFING
Debby Friedman
1 loaf white bread	1/4 C. celery chopped
water	1/8 t. poultry seasoning
1 to 2 eggs	1 t. salt
3 to 4 onions chopped	1/8 t. pepper
1 Tb. Chicken fat	1/2 t. sugar
Soak bread in water and then squeeze completely dry. Mash
it so that it forms a smooth paste. Add eggs. Saute the onions
and celery in fat until lightly brown. Add to the bread along
with the seasonings and mix well. Stuff the bird loosely, sew,
and roast as desired. This will make enough for a 8-10 lb.
turkey.
MATZA STUFFING, See Passover Section, Page 41
STUFFED KISHKAS
Beef casings	Salt and pepper to taste
1/3 C. chicken fat	1 C. flour
3 onions
Buy beef casings from butcher. Make filling of fat, flour
and one onion chopped, and seasonings. Fasten one end of cas-
ing, stuff and fasten the open end. Plunge in boiling water
and scrape surface until clean. Slice remaining onions into
a greased roaster, and roast in pan slowly until well done and
brown. Baste frequently with pan liquid. These can be roasted
along with fowl or meat roast, also.
STUFED HELZEL II
Dorothy Willer
Skin from neck of fowl	4 medium onions chopped
2 C. flour	Salt and pepper to taste
2/3 C. chicken or goose fat
Remover skin from neck or fowl in one piece. If torn, sew
together. Wash and clean thoroughly. Mix flour, fat, onions
and seasonings. Sew up one end of neck and stuff with the
mixture. Then sew up other end. If any stuffing remains,
place it in pan and bake along with the helzel. Roast the
helzel in the roasting pan along with the fowl. Baste often
with gravy in pan.



---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520060)
MEATS


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520061)
Tcholent, called shalet in some regions, is a meal in one
dish, designed to meet the need for a hot food on the Sabbath
when cooking is prohibited. The origin of this dish is un-
known. There is a theory that the word tcholent may have or-
iginated in France from the word chaud, meaning hot. Another
theory is that it might have had its origin in the two German
words, shule ende (end if synagogue services), and was corr-
upted in sound to the current term, tcholent.
There are several varieties of tcholent, depending on reg-
ional differences. It may be composed of very inexpensive
ingredients, or include as lavish contents as the budget per-
mits. Other vegetables than those specifically mentioned in
the recipe may be added. Regardless of the ingredients, it
is the method of preparation, the slow cooking or baking, that
gives tcholent its character.
TCHOLENT
2 large onions, diced	2 lb. beef (Brisket, short
2 Tb. Chicken fat	ribs or chuck)
1/2 lb. dried lima beans	2 Tb. flour
(soaked in cold water until	salt, pepper, paprika to taste
tender)	boiling water to cover
8-10 medium potatoes quartered
Saute onions in hot fat in the bottom of a Dutch oven or
any other heavy iron pot with a tight fitting lid. When onions
are brown, add the beans, potatoes and place meat in the center.
Mix flour and seasonings and sprinkle over top. Add boiling
water to cover. Close lid and cook over low heat for 3-4
hours. Lift cover to make sure no additional water is needed,
cover and place in a 3750 oven for 1/2 hour. Lower heat to
225 degrees and allow to stay all day or over night. Keep
covered tightly, no basting, and no peeping! The pot may be
given an occasional shake or two before being placed in the
oven. The tcholent can also be cooked on the top of the
stove After the first 3-4 hours, place the pot on an asbes-
tos pad over a simmer flame. The flame should be as low as
possible without the danger of its extinguishing during the
night. Let the pot sit on the stove until ready to serve.
ESAU'S POTTAGE
We took this recipe from an old issue of The American Weekly
Housewife's Food Almanac. It was sent into them by the son-in-
law of missionaries in Morocco, North Africa and among the
Arabs. The dish is probably H e brew in origin for it is the
main dish throughout North Africa and Arabia. They keep the
pot on the fire throwing in with the lentils whatever vegeta-
bles they have in season, with chunks of goat meat or mutton,
but never, never any pork. The "pottage" is warmed up as many
times as necessary until it is all eaten. It has been found
that the taste improves with time and reheating. In this res-
pect as well as in its contents there is a great similarity
between this dish and Tcholent which is baked. Perhaps there
is some common origin between them.
This is supposed to be the dish for which Esau sold his
birthright, called in the Bible a "Mess of Pottage," and "Pot-
tage of Lentils" (Genesis 25:34), so you can see that the dish
is at least 3,500 years old.
Purists may question the fact that tomato juice was used
as a cooking ingredient some 3,500 years ago. It probably
wasn't and the same probably apples to some of the other in-
gredients mentioned in the recipe. Yet the basic dish without
the modern additions might well have been the original
Biblical Pottage.
1 lb. lentils	1 lb. meat (hamburger, or beef
6 to 10 onions	veal, or mutton stewing meat)
3 C. tomato juice	1/4 lb. suet or any other fat
1 - 2 carrots, or other	2 t.salt
vegetables in season	1/3 t. red pepper
as parsnip, parsley,	1/4 t. black pepper
root, celery, or green
pepper
Wash the lentils thoroughly. Soaking 2 or 3 hours will
hasten the cooking. Place lentils in any kettle that will
hold five or six quarts; add tomato juice, onions and other
vegetables, cut or chopped fine. Add a little water if neces-
sary, but it will seldom be necessary to add more than one
cup. Make half of the hamburger into small balls. Fry the
other half of the hamburger and the suet in the pan "loose"
with the balls, season and empty into the kettle with the
lentils, gravy and all. If stewing meat is used, cut it into
small pieces and fry with suet or shortening, emptying meat
and gravy in with the lentils when nearly done. Add the salt
and pepper, varying the amounts according to taste. Stir
occasionally. Simmer or boil gently until the lentils are
done, usually about an hour, or an hour and a half if the
lentils were not soaked or if they were very dry. This
amount will serve 6 to 8.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520062)
EOLISHKES
1 lb. ground beef	10-12 cabbage leaves
1/4 C. uncooked rice	1/4 C. lemon juice, vinegar, or
1 egg	1/8 t. citric acid crystals
1 onion grated	1/2 C. brown sugar
1 carrot grated	1 C. tomato sauce
1/4 t. salt	water to cover
	raisins (optional)
Combine meat, rice and egg. Add onion and carrot and salt.
Blanch cabbage leaves by covering them with boiling water for
2-3 minutes. Drain leaves. Place a ball of the meat mixture
in the center of each leaf and roll up, tucking in the ends
securely. Place close together in heavy frying pan, add the
other ingredients and enough water to cover. Cover tightly
and cook over moderate heat for 30 minutes. Reduce heat and
simmer 20 minutes more. Place in 350° oven uncovered for 20
minutes to brown on top. Turn rolls to brown on both sides.
Hot water may be added while baking if necessary.
STUFFED CABBAGE I
Bessie Sirota
2 lbs. ground beef	1 medium cabbage
2 eggs	5 medium onions diced
1 1/2 slices of crustless	1 can of tomatoes
bread	juice of 2 lemons
salt and pepper to taste	3 heaping Tb. sugar
	salt and pepper to taste
Mix meat, eggs, bread and salt and pepper. Form into balls.
Core cabbage and remove the good large leaves. Place leaves
in boiling water and let soak until pliable. Place the diced
onions in the bottom of a dutch oven or large pot along with
the excess cabbage cut up. Save some of the excess cabbage
for between the layers of cabbage rolls. Put each meat ball
into a cabbage leaf and roll securely. Place cabbage rolls in
the pot with folded side down adding excess cabbage pieces
throughout. It is not necessary to add water. Cover pot,
bring to a boil and let cook on a low flame for 20 minutes.
Then add tomatoes, lemon juice, and sugar. If desired, more
salt and pepper to taste. Cover and cook until rolls are
tender.
STUFFED CABBAGE II
Rose Friedman
1 1/2 lbs. ground beef	16 cabbage leaves (approximate)
1 egg	1 to 2 pieces sour salt
1 onion grated	1/2 C. brown sugar
1/4 C. bread crumbs	water to cover
salt and pepper to taste
Soak cabbage leaves in boiling water, (sprinkle salt on top)
until pliable. Mix meat, egg, onion, bread crumbs, and season-
ings and form into balls. Place each ball in a cabbage leaf.
Roll up, tucking ends in securely. Boil enough water to cover
with the sour salt and sugar until the seasonings mix thorough-
ly and the liquid tastes right. Place cabbage rolls, folded
side down, into the liquid and simmer until tender. Then place
in a 350° oven uncovered for 1 to 2 hours. Thicken gravy
with a little flour if desired.
SWEET AND SOUR MEATBALLS
Lois Levenson
1 #2 can tomatoes	1 lb. ground beef made into
1 small can tomato soup	meat balls (with chopped
1/2 C. brown sugar	onion, salt).
Juice of 1 lemon	Water to cover meat
Make small balls of meat using your desired method. Make
a sauce out of the tomatoes, tomato soup, sugar and lemon
juice. Mix well, and drop the meat balls into the sauce.
Add enough water so that meat is covered with sauce. Cook
slowly over a low heat for 2 hours. Correct seasonings be-
fore serving.
SWEET AND SOUR MEATBALLS, As an appetizer, See appetizers
Section, page 63



---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520063)
POTTED MEAT BALLS
Rhea Kish
1 lb. chopped beef	2 to 3 potatoes quartered
1 egg	1/4 C. water
2 onions	salt and pepper to taste
1 to 2 cloves garlic	paprika to taste
Make meat balls with egg and one of the onions minced. Brown
the other sliced onion along with the minced garlic in a greased
skillet. Add meat balls and sear until nicely browned. Add
carrot sliced, and brown. Add potatoes, water, and seasonings
and cook: covered until done.
BRISKET OF BEEF
Deborah Freedman
salt, garlic salt, pepper and garlic salt - to taste
3-6 onions, sliced
bay leaf
brisket of beef
Brown the brisket in a preheated dutch oven on the top
of the stove. Add onions and bay leaf. Bake in a 350 degree
oven, covered, till almost tender, but not quite, about
3 hours. Drain off and reserve the gravy, and let the
brisket get cold. This is best if made one or two days
before serving. Slice meat, return gravy to pan and
reheat. It freezes magnificently.
(Ed. You may continue cooking after browning on top of the
stove. Cover and turn down heat. Add carrots, potatoes
or other vegetables and cook 3 hours or more till tender.)
MAMA'S JERKOYAH (Pot Roast)
Clare Seymour
3-4 lb. chuck - English cut or brisket (beef)
2-3 large onions
4 carrots
Kitchen Bouquet
1 bayleaf
2 ribs celery with leaves
1 C. water
Place sliced onion, carrot and celery in heavy pot with
crushed bay leaf. Brush meat with Kitchen Bouquet and season.
Place meat in pot with water. Bring to a boll and cover,
reduce heat and simmer one hour. Remove meat and slice
against grain. Return to pot. You may add peeled potatoes
or other vegetables at this time. Cover and cook about 1 3/4
hours until tender. If this cooks dry, add a little water
and reduce heat. Juice should cook down to natural gravy.
VEAL STEAK - HUNGARIAN STYLE
Ada Margolis
1 1/2 lb. veal steak	2 Tb. Minced onion
1/4 C. flour	1 Tb. Parsley
3 Tb. Fat	1/4 T. paprika
1 clove garlic	1/4 t. celery salt
1/2 t. salt	1 C. hot white wine
Cut the veal steak into 1 inch pieces and roll in flour.
Melt the fat in frying pan, add garlic and brown for 3 minutes.
Discard the garlic, add onion and the veal and brown well to-
gether. Add parsley, salt, paprika, celery salt and wine.
Simmer for 1 hour. Serve with mashed potatoes.
VEAL PAPRIKA
Ada Margolis
4 Tb. Fat	2 Tb. Paprika
1/2 C. minced onion	1 1/2 t. salt
2 1/2 lb. veal steak	1/4 C. water
1 green pepper diced	1 Tb. lemon juice
Melt fat and brown onions lightly. Add the veal which has
been cut into pieces 1/2 &times; 1 1/2 inches, the paprika, the
diced green pepper, and the salt. Brown gently. Add the
water and lemon juice, cover, and cook on a low flame for
about 1 hour. Add more water if necessary during the cooking.
Serve with cooked noodles, or EGG DUMPLINGS, See page 119.
Serves about 6.
KASHA-STUFFED VEAL BREAST
Sarah Nagler
1 C. kasha (buckwheat groats)	3 to 4 lb. veal roast
1 onion, diced	1 onion
1egg	1 clove garlic
Salt and pepper to taste	Salt, pepper, paprika
Prepare kasha according to directions on package. Cool.
Add onion which has been diced and sauted in chicken fat. Add
well-beaten egg and salt and pepper to taste. Stuff this
dressing into pocket of veal breast. (Have butcher make a
pocket in breast.) Cook, as one would prepare a veal roast,
with sliced onion and minced garlic, and seasoning to taste.
Place sufficient water in bottom of pan to keep moist. Roast
in covered roaster in moderate oven (325° to 350°) about 2 or
2-1/2 hours.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520064)
CARROT TZIMMES AND KNADLACH
Jean Fine
1 large bunch of carrots	salt to taste
water	2 Tb. Sugar
1 lb. brisket of beef	knadlach, 2 to each person
	(see recipe on page 78).
Slice the carrots into small pieces and put into 2 or 3 quart
pot. Add brisket and fill pot with. Water Cook for 2 hours
on low heat. After 2 hours, add salt to taste, sugar and the
knadlach. Cook uncovered another hour. By this time there
should be practically no water left and the tzimmes is ready
to serve. Watch it carefully while cooking to safe that the
water doesn't evaporate too fast. If necessary add same more
during the cooking. This serves 2 or 3 as a main course.
For other TZIMMES rec-
ipes appropriate as a
side dish and not a main
course, see Vegetable
Section, page 98-99.
SWEET AND SOUR PRUNE TZIMMES
Rhea Kish
2 lbs. Chuck meat	5 white potatoes quartered
water to cover	2-3 sweet potatoes sliced
3/4 C. tomato juice or stew-	1 1/2 C. dry prunes
ed tomatoes	3/4 C. dried apricots
salt and pepper to taste	extra water if necessary
1 Tb. Sugar
Sear chuck lightly in a little fat. Add water to cover and
cook one hour. Add tomato juice and remaining ingredients.
Cover and cook on a low flame until ingredients are tender.
Add the extra water if the stew appears to be drying out.
When done fruit should be mushy and gravy gets thick. Serves
4-6. Excellent if left over for the next day.
STUFFED FLANK STEAK
Bea Kahn
1 3/4 to 2 lb. flank steak	1 Tb. savory seasoning
2-3 onions	salt and pepper to taste
2 C. soft bread crumbs	2 Tb. melted fat
1 Tb. chopped parsley	1 small can tomato sauce
	1 C. boiling water
Have butcher cut a "pocket" in the steak. To make stuffing
add 1 grated onion, fat, parsley, seasonings to the bread
crumbs. Pack the stuffing rather lightly into the pocket.
After steak is stoffed, salt and pepper both sides of the
meat and roll up starting with the stuffed end. Fasten the
steak together with wooden skewers. Next, slice the remain-
ing 2 onions and saute them in fat in the pan in which the
steak is to be roasted. When onions are brown, then brown
the steak on all sides. Add water and tomato sauce. Place
in a 325° oven and roast 1 1/2 hours, basting frequently.
To serve, slice and cover with the gravy from the pan.
ROASTED LAMB SHANKS
1 lamb shank per person	2 to 3 sliced onions
fat for frying	1 eggplant unpeeled
1 to 2 cloves garlic	1 can tomatoes
Brown lamb in fat, add garlic and brown. Place in a cass-
erole, pouring fat from frying pan over lamb. Add onions
sliced, eggplant cut in cubes and tomatoes. Simmer in oven
for 1 to 2 hours at 350°.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520065)
CHICKEN LIVERS AND MUSHROOMS ON TOAST
1 Tb. chicken fat	2.Tb. flour
1 large onion	1/2 c. tomato juice
1 lb. mushrooms	1 C. canned peas (optional)
6-8 chicken livers	salt, pepper, paprika to taste
Dice onion and saute in fat until light brown. Slice mush-
rooms and add to onion. Season with salt and pepper and a
dash of paprika. Add tomato juice, cover, and simmer over a
low flame for 15 minutes. Add chicken livers, sprinkle with
flour and mix well. Continue to cook for 10 minutes over a
very low flame. Add peas the last 2 or 3 minutes before ready
to serve. Serve on toast as an appetizer for dinner or main
course for lunch.
SAUTED LIVER, See Appetizers Section, Page 62.
MATZA AND LIVER PIE, See Passover Section, Page 41.
SAUTED LIVER
Bea Kahn
calf's or beef liver	green peas
chicken fat 	mushrooms
sliced onions	salt and pepper to taste
green pepper, sliced
Broil liver slightly. Cut into cubes and saute n chicken
fat. Add onions and green pepper and brown. When liver and
vegetables are browned, add green peas and sliced mushrooms.
Season to taste and let simmer until all ingredients are cooked
through. Amounts used are optional and proportions are up to
individual taste. Serve on noodles, mashed potatoes, or toast
as an appetizer.
TONGUE WITH SWEET AND SOUR SAUCE
June Weiss
3-4 lb. fresh of pickled	1/4 C. vinegar
tongue	4 ginger snaps
1 1/2 C. hot water	1/4 C. blanched almonds
juice of 1 lemon
1/4 C. raisins
1/4 C. brown sugar
Boil tongue until tender. Pare, slice and cover with sauce.
To make sauce, mix all remaining ingredients and cook until
mixture tastes strongly of sugar and vinegar. Pour over sliced
tongue. Let stand until ready to serve.
PICKLED TONGUE OR CORNED BEEF I
Mrs. Ben Kaplan
4 lb beef tongue or	1 Tb. Brown sugar
brisket	3 cloves garlic minced
2 Tb. salt	1 Tb. saltpeter
2-3 t. mixed pickling spices	1/2 C. warm water
Mix salt, pickling spices, sugar and garlic together. Rub
into the meat thoroughly. Place in a crock or glass bowl.
Dissolve the saltpeter in the warm water and pour over meat.
Cover tightly and place in refrigerator. Turn meat every
other day. Leave in Icebox for 1 week. To cook, place in
cold water to cover Bring to a boil and throw away the
water. Cover with cold water again, bring to boil and cook until tender.
PICKLED TONGUE OR BEEF BRISKET II
Barbara Sattinger
3-4 lb. beef tongue or	1/2 t. garlic salt or 1 to 2
brisket	cloves minced
1 1/2 Tb. Salt	1/8 t. allspice
1 1/2 t. sugar	1/8 t. ginger
1 t. saltpeter	1/8 t. nutmeg
2 t. mixed pickling spices	1/8 t. paprika
	1/8 t. pepper
Mix all spices together and rub into meat thoroughly.
Place in covered casserole (do not use metal) and put in re-
frigerator. Turn meat over every 2-3 days. Leave in refrig-
erator 10 days to 2 weeks. To cook, place in cold water to
cover and bring to a boil. Throw away this first water and
cover again with cold water. Bring to a boil and cook until tender.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520066)
PANCAKES
AND PUDDINGS


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520067)
POTATO LATKES
6 Potatoes	Pepper to taste
2 eggs	1 small onion grated
2 Tb. flour	1/4 t. baking powder
1 t. salt
Grate potatoes and drain. Add remaining ingredients and mix
well. Drop by tablespoonfuls into at least 1/4 inch deep hot
fat. Fry until brown on both sides, turning only once so that
pancakes do not get soggy.
HINTS FOR POTATO LATKES
Mollie Rossin
1. Before grating potatoes, grate the onions first, so that
the potato doesn't stand around any longer than necessary.
Add a pinch of baking soda to the potato and onion mixture.
This keeps the potatoes white. This is especially good when
making a kugel as you have to grate so many potatoes and they
are apt to turn brown.
2. Instead of adding plain flour as a thickener, use any ready made pancake mix. This keeps the latkes light and fluffy.
3. Fry in hot deep fat and turn over only once. Latkes get
soggy and heavy if turned over and over.
SOUR CREAM PANCAKES
Debby Friedman
1 C. milk	scant t. baking soda
1 C sour cream	scant t. salt
Mix all ingredients thoroughly. Drop batter by tablespoons-
full onto a hot greased skillet, to make a very tiny thin tea
sized pancake. When brown on one side, turn and brown delicate-
ly on second side. Pancakes should have a soft consistency.
Serve with confectioners' sugar, jam, or syrup as desired.
MATZA MEAL PANCAKES I
Lee Kaplan
3 eggs	1/2 t. salt
1/2 C. matza meal	1/2 C. water
1 Tb. sugar
Separate eggs. Add sugar to yolks and beat until very light.
Blend matza meal with water, sugar, and salt and add to egg
yolks. Beat egg whites until stiff and fold in to rest of mix-
ture. Drop by spoonfuls into deep fat and fry until brown.
MATZA MEAL PANCAKES II
Sue Sarnoff
2 eggs well beaten	1/2 t. salt
1/2 C. matza meal	3/4 C. milk
1 t. sugar
Add milk to dry ingredients and stir well. Gradually add
the well beaten eggs to the matza meal mixture, blending
gently. Drop by spoonfuls onto well greased pan and fry until
brown on both sides. Serve with sour cream, apple sauce, or
jam.
MATZA PLETZEL, See Passover Section, P.43
CORN KUGEL
Fanny Haber
1 can (#2) corn, whole kernels	1/4 C. milk (or sour cream)
(drain well)	1 t. baking powder
2 eggs	1/4 t. salt
1/2 C. cracker meal (left-over	1 T. melted fat or butter
cooked rice or mashed
potatoes may be substituted)
Mix well. Fill well greased casserole. Bake 1 hour in
3500 oven. Serves 4-6.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520068)
POTATO KUGEL
6 large raw potatoes	1/2 C. shortening (or chicken fat)
3 eggs	1 t. baking powder
1/4 C. flour	1 t. salt
1 small onion grated	dash of pepper
Grate the potatoes on a fine grater, drain off most of the
water and add the remaining ingredients. Mix well. Pour into
a well greased, heated pudding dish (or individual cup cake
tins) and bake in a hot oven (400°) for 1 hour or until a
brown crust has formed on top. Serve hot.
To make the pudding lighter in texture and color, one large
cooked and mashed potato can be substituted for one of the
raw potatoes.
PASSOVER POTATO KUGEL, See Passover Section, Page 43.
POTATO TAGACHS (LITTLE PUDDINGS)
Maizie Gurin
Boiled potatoes	chicken fat or butter
eggs separated (1 egg to each	onions (1 medium onion to every
potato)	2 or 3 potatoes)
salt and pepper to taste
Mash potatoes well. Add beaten egg yolks and beat until
smooth. Season to taste. Fry diced onions in chicken fat or
butter and add to potato mixture. Beat egg whites stiff and
fold into potatoes. Bake in very well greased bowl or
individual cupcake tins in a 400° oven about 30 minutes or
until nicely browned.
FAYGA'S NOODLE RING
1/2 lb. broad noodles - cooked and drained
Stir 3 T. soft oleo through hot noodles
Mix well: 1 C. orange juice
1/2 t. grated orange rind
1/2 C. sugar
1/4 t. cinnamon
1/2 t. salt
Add to noodles and set aside for 1 1/2 hours at least.
1 apple - grated	Topping:
1/4 C. raisins	1/4 C. brown sugar
2 eggs - well beaten	1/2 C. ground nuts
Add to noodles	1/8 t. cinnamon
Pour into 2 quart casserole, greased. Add topping. Dot
with butter. Bake 350 degrees for i hour.
LUKSHEN AND CHEESE KUGEL I
Shirley Ingber
1/2 lb. broad noodles	1/8 C. sugar
1/2 lb. cottage cheese	1/8 lb. soft butter
1/2 pt. sour cream	Pinch of salt
3 egss
Boil noodles. Mix with other ingredients. Pour into
greased baking dish and bake 15 minutes at 400°, then 1 hr.
at 350°. Cut into squares. Serves about 6, as a side dish.
LUKSHEN AND CHEESE KUGEL II
Halina Silverman
1/2 lb. medium noodles - cooked
1/4 C. butter or oleo
1/4 lb. each of cream, cottage and american cheese
3 eggs - beaten to just mix thoroughly
1 C. milk
1/3 C. sugar (optional)
1 C. sour cream	salt to taste
Mix together and place in a two quart buttered casserole.
Sprinkle cornflakes on top and bake 350 degree for 40 minutes-
one hour.
MATZA CHEESE KUGEL, See Passover Section, Page 43.
LUKSHEN KUGEL
Freda Kaufman
1/2 lb. broad noodles	1/8 t. salt
2 eggs	4 Tb. shortening (butter or
3 Tb. sugar	chicken fat)
1/4 t. cinnamon.	1/2 C. chopped seedless
3 Tb. bread crumbs	raisins
	1/4 C. chopped walnuts
Boil noodles in 2 quarts water and 1 tsp. salt. After
tender, rinse with cold water. Beat eggs with sugar,
cinnamon and salt. Add the noodles. Melt fat and add
to mixture. Turn 1/2 of mixture into greased baking dish,
sprinkle with all of nuts and raisins and cover with remainder
of noodles. Top with bread crumbs. Bake 45 minutes at 400°.
You can substitute 1/2 C. chopped apples for half of the
raisins, or else dried fruit of any kind can be added.
APPLE AND
MATZA KUGEL, See Passover Section, Page 42
GRATED APPLE KUGEL, See Passover Section, Page 42.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520069)
KASHA
Mrs. Fajans
1 C. Kasha (buckwheat groats)
2 C. boiling water
1 egg
1 t. salt
Mix kasha and egg. Fry <u>without fat</u> until separated and dry.
Add water and salt and cook slowly for 15 min. serve with gravy
or butter.
KASHA RUSSIAN STYLE
Mme. Pargment
1 C. whole grain buckwheat groats
1/2 t. salt
3-4 C. boiling water
Heat the groats thoroughly in an extremely hot oven. When
the grain is hot, pour the boiling water over it and add the
salt. Put in 375° oven and bake for 1 hour. Mix occasionally.
Serve with rich gravy or butter.
KASHA STUFFED CABBAGE
Freda Kaufman
1/2 1b. kasha (buckwheat groats)
1/2 t. salt
12 cabbage leaves
1 egg
2 Tb. Butter
1 large onion
1 small sweet red pepper
1 tomato
1/2 Tb. Sugar
Sour salt to taste (or lemon)
Boil water. Add salt and kasha. Cook slowly for 15 minutes.
Steam the cabbage leaves. Cool the kasha and mix with egg and
butter. Roll into cabbage leaves. Make sauce of cut-up onion,
tomato, red pepper, sour salt, and sugar, as well as a little
butter and salt. Simmer. When sauce is brown, put in pan with
rolled cabbage. Bake in medium oven for 2 hrs. (350°).
FLOUR FOODS


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520070)
There seems to be a great deal of controversy over the
classifications of the flour foods. What makes kreplach
different from a pirozhki, what constitutes a verenicke and
why is it sometimes called a varnitchke? Some people say that
a knishe is only fried, while others claim that it must be
baked. As we gathered our recipes we found that we got very
different methods and ingredients under the same name and the
same things were called several different names. We came to the
conclusion that these flour foods, which are essentially
dough filled with something, probably originated out of
economy needs; the way in which they were made, the part they
played in the meal and the names given them varied through
historical development and national differences.
The dough can be a noodle, yeast, pie crust, strudel or a
mashed potato dough. It can be rolled out, spread with filling
and rolled in jelly roll fashion and then sliced, or it can be
out into individual rounds or squares, filled and sealed over.
The fillings may consist of mashed potatoes, potatoes com-
bined with meat, various meats, cheese, fruits and vegetables.
Leftovers can be utilized. The type of dough and filling
combined should blend well together.
The methods of cooking can be interchanged for the different
types of dough. They can be baked, boiled, fried, or any
combination of these according to personal preference.
Although some may disagree with our classifications, we have
tried to make meaningful groups of the recipes using the
original names given to us. Despite what you call them, re-
gardless of how you cook them, we guarantee they'll be
delicious.
KNISHES
KNISHE DOUGH MADE WITH POTATOES
Mrs. Sperling
2 or 3 potatoes, boiled and mashed
3 eggs
3 C. flour
1 t. salt
Mix potatoes and eggs until smooth. Add enough of the
flour and salt to make a dough that can be rolled. Roll
dough out on a floured board or cloth to 1/8 inch thickness.
This can be cut into individual rounds and filled, or spread
with filling and rolled as for a jelly roll and then out
into serving pieces. Knishes made with this dough can be
baked on a well-greased pan in a 375° oven until brown,
or can be deep fried, according to preference. Any filling
may be used.
Another method is to pat half of the dough evenly onto
the bottom of a square baking dish which is well-greased.
Cover the dough with a layer of filling and then cover the
Filling with a top layer of dough in sandwich style. This
can be baked and cut into squares to serve.
Other types of dough used for knishes are:
ORDINARY PIE CRUST DOUGH
YEAST DOUGH
SHTRUDEL DOUGH (unsweetened)
With these, the dough is rolled out as thin as
possible, spread with filling, and rolled in jelly
roll or strudel fashion and then cut into individ-
ual pieces. These knishes are baked rather than
fried.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520071)
RUMANIAN STYLE KINSHER
Belle Lansky
These knishes are made In the true Roumanian style. The
Hungarian people sometimes add sweet and sour cabbage and
chicken grieben to the filling.
Dougn made with potatoes (see onions, minced and fried
recipe page 143)	garlic to taste
liver, ---- beef, calf, or	pepper to taste
chicken	chicken fat
left-over cooked meat
The amounts used are up to the individual's own judgment,
and will depend on personal taste, number and size of the
knishes being made. These can be made rather large and
served as the major part of a meal, or can be made extremely
tiny, and used as an excellent hors doevre.
Par-boil liver until tender. Put it through the meat grinder
along with left-over meat, if it is being used. Add fried
onions, and seasonings. Mix well. Add enough chicken fat
to hold mixture together. Roll dough on a lightly floured
board to 1/8 inch thickness. Place filling in little mounds
on only half of the area of the dough. Distance between
mounds will be determined by size of knishes desired. Fold
empty half of dough over the side with the mounds of filling.
Cut out rounds by placing a floured orange juice glass or other
cutter around each spot where filling has been placed. Make
sure edges are completely sealed.
Fry knishes a few at a time in hot deep fat (vegetable
shortening) until brown. Drain. Place them in covered
casserole and put into a 250-300° oven for 30-45 minutes.
Watch to see that too much moisture doesn't collect. If so,
remove cover. Knishes should come out light and puffy.
POTATO LIVER KNISHES
Dough:	Filling:
4 large potatoes	1 large onion minced
3/4 C. flour	6 chicken livers
2 t. baking powder	1 t. chicken fat
1 egg	salt and pepper to taste
Pare and cut potatoes and boil in salted water, When sort,
mash and allow to cool. Add egg, salt and pepper to taste,
flour and baking powder and knead into a smooth dough. To
make filling, saute the livers and onion until lightly brown.
Chop finely and season to taste.
Roll potato dough with floured hands into balls of desired
size. Poke a hole in the center of the ball and place a
small amount of filling in the hole. Seal over the hole with
the dough and flatten the ball. Fry in deep hot fat until
golden brown. These can be made very small and served as
an hor d'oerve. Knishes can be half-fried beforehand, and
then returned to the hot fat to brown at the last moment
before serving.
MEAT
KNISHES
Rose Friedman
Dough:	Filling:
3 large potatoes	3/4 lb. meat (cooked and ground)
2 eggs	2 onions minced
enough flour to make dough	chicken fat
workable	seasonings to taste
1/2 t. baking powder
salt to taste
Boil potatoes in salted water. When soft, mash and allow to
cool. Add eggs and seasonings to taste. Mix well. Add
enough flour to make a soft dough. To make filling, saute the
onions in fat until brown and add to the ground meat. Season
to taste and add enough fat to hold mixture together.
Roll potato dough with floured hands into balls of desired
size. Poke a hole in the center of the ball and place a small
amount of filling in the hole. Seal over the hole with the
dough and pat the ball smooth. Fry in deep fat (1 inch) until
golden brown. These can be made in any desired size.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520072)
AUNT SYLVIA'S POTATO KNISHES
Bess Paper
1 C. mashed potatoes	salt to taste
1 egg	1 T, margarine
enough flour to make a stiff dough
Combine ingredients thoroughly. Make into little balls.
Using your thumb, make a hole for filling in each ball.
After filling, reshape balls to cover filling. Deep fry or
bake on a greased cooky sheet in a 375 degr. oven until brown.
<u>Fillings</u>
1. Sauteed onions, seasoned to taste.
2. Chopped left-over cooked chicken mixed with sauteed
onions and seasonings.
3. Any cooked meat, chopped and seasoned.
POTATO FILLED
KINSHES
Rhea Kish
Dough:	Filling:
2 C. flour	2 C. mashed potatoes
1/2 t. salt	2 large onions diced
1 egg	griebenes ("as much as you can
3 Tb. chicken fat	lay your hands on")
1 C. cold water	salt and pepper to taste
Sift dry ingredients into a bowl. Make a well in the center
and add egg and fat. Stir to combine and add a little water
at a time to make dough firm enough to handle. Toss onto a
floured board and knead for about 3 minutes. Divide dough into
two parts and roll each separately. Roll as thin as possible,
rolling from edge toward the center.
To make filling, saute the onions in chicken fat until
golden brown. Add to the potatoes along with the grieben cut
into small pieces. Add enough chicken fat to make the mixture
have a sticky consistency. Season to taste.
Put filling on dough in a line across one end of the dough.
Roll as for jelly roll until filling is covered with two layers
of dough. Cut off the roll and put another line of filling on
dough, etc. repeating process until all the dough and filling
is used up. Cut the long rolls into pieces of desired size by
pressing down on the roll with the pinky finger side of the
hand all the way to the bottom so that the top layer of dough
sticks to the bottom layer. Then cut completely through with
a sharp knife. Turn the cake so that one cut edge is down and
the second cut edge shows on the top. Flatten a little with
the palm of the hand, being careful not to press open the sealed
edge and expose the filling.
Bake on a very well greased cookie sheet in a 375° oven until
brown. Baste once or twice during baking with melted chicken
fat. These can be made in any desired size.
LIVER AND POTATO FILLED KNISHES
Esther Cook
3/4 C. warm water	1 onion diced
1 cake yeast	chicken fat
1 Tb. Sugar	salt and pepper to taste
3 Tb. chicken fat or oil	6 potatoes mashed
2 eggs	1/2 lb. liver chopped
1/2 t. salt
3 1/2 C. flour
Dissolve sugar in water and add salt and fat. Add yeast,
mix and let stand for five minutes. Beat eggs and add the
yeast mixture to them. Add all this to the flour which has
been sifted, and mix well. Let stand in a warm place 3 to
4 hours until it rises. Roll out dough on a floured cloth
until it is thin as possible. Use following filling:
Fry onion in fat. Add to potatoes and liver. Mix well
and season to taste. Add more fat if desired to hold mix-
ture together. Put filling on dough in a line. Roll as
for jelly roll until filling doesn't show through the
dough. Cut off the roll and put another line of filling on
dough, etc., repeating process until all the dough and fill-
ing is used up. Cut the long rolls into 1 1/2 inch pieces
and pinch the edges together, so that filling is not exposed.
Bake in a well-greased pan for 25 minutes in a 325° oven.
KINSHES
KASHA
Mrs. Sperling
Dough:	Filling:
1 C. flour	2 large onions
1 egg	chicken fat
2 Tb. Water	1/2 lb. kasha (buckwheat groat
1/2 t. salt	1 egg
1 Tb. chicken fat
Add egg to the groats and mix. Place in very hot oven to
brown. When kernels are completely separated and dried, re-
move from oven and boil 10 minutes in the top of a double
boiler until tender. Set aside. Mince onions and fry in the
chicken fat until lightly brown.
Mix flour, salt, egg, water and fat thoroughly to form a
dough. Roll out on floured board as thin as possible. Spre***
the fried onions over the dough and then spread the cooked
kashe over that. Roll as for a jelly roll. Cut the roll into
approximately 8 pieces. Bake in 350° oven 1/2 hour. Serve
instead of potatoes with a main course. The same dough can
be cut into rounds, filled, sealed over, and baked individual-
ly.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520073)
RICH MAN'S FOLLY
A poor man ran home in haste and told his wife breathlessly,
"I've just been to see the richest man in town and I found him
at dinner eating blintzes. As I stood there and smelled their
delicious fragrance, the juices in me began to work. Those
blintzes certainly must taste wonderful! Believe me when rich
men eat something, it's <u>something</u>." Then the poor man sighed
longingly. "Oh, if I could only taste blintzes just once!"
"But how can I make blintzes? I need eggs for that," answered
his wife.
"Do without the eggs," her husband advised.
"And I'll need cream."
"Well, you'll have to do without the cream."
"And you think sugar doesn't cost money?"
"You'll have to do without the sugar, then."
The wife then set to work and made the blintzes, but without
eggs, cream, and sugar.
With a judicious air the husband started to eat them, chewed
them slowly and carefully, Then suddenly a look of bewilderment
came into his face. "Let me tell you, Sarah," he murmured, "for
the life of me, I can't see what those rich people see in blintzes!"
CHEESE BLINTZES
Esther Bree
Batter:
3 eggs and 1 egg white	2 C. sifted flour
1 C. milk	2 t. sugar
1 C. water	1/2 t. salt
Beat eggs and egg white in a bowl. Add milk and water.
Sift flour, sugar and salt in a deep bowl. Add egg mixture
a little at a time to the flour and beat until smooth.
Grease a small skillet and when it is hot, pour a thin
layer of batter, tipping the pan to make the pancake as thin
as possible. Fry only one side till firm and set. Remove
to a cloth. Repeat until all the batter is used.
Filling:
1 lb. farmer cheese or dry cottage cheese
1 3-oz. block of cream cheese
1 t. vanilla
1 egg yolk	dash cinnamon
2 t. sugar	dash salt
Mash cheese in a bowl. Blend all ingredients. Let stand.
Place 1 T. of cheese filling in the center of each blintz
on browned side. Fold over on 4 sides or roll. Fry
until brown.
BLINTZES
(Cottage Cheese Pancakes)
Batter	Filling
4 eggs, well beaten	1 1/2 lb. farmer's cheese
1 C. flour	2 egg yolks, beaten
1 t. salt	1 T. butter
1 C. milk	1 T, sugar
1 C. milk	1 T. lemon juice (optional)
Prepare the filling first. You may use your blender or
electric mixer. Cream the cheese with the other ingredients,
adding a bit of salt to taste. Use as much lemon juice as
is needed to taste slightly tart. Some dry cheese is very
tart but some may be bland.
To make the batter, add the milk to the eggs and salt.
Add the flour gradually, stirring constantly until it is
smooth and blended. Heat a heavy 6 inch fry pan and when it
is hot, wipe the inside with vegetable shortening, using a
paper towel. Pour in enough batter to make a very thin
pancake, tipping the pan from side to side quickly until
the bottom is covered and then quickly our the remainder
of the batter back into the unused portion of batter. The
pancake is done as soon as you can shake it loose. Cook on
one side only and knock it out onto a wooden board. You
may stack the pancakes to fill later.
cook them.
Place a rounded tablespoon of cheese in the center of
a pancake. Fold in from opposite sides and then together
as an envelope. Before serving, fry in butter until brown
on both sides or bake them in the oven. Serve hot with
sour cream, strawberry jam or cinnamon and sugar.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520074)
POTATO BLINTZES
Suzanne Sarnoff
Batter: for 6:	Filling:
1 egg	3 potatoes boiled and mashed
1/2 C. flour	2 medium onions minced
1/2 t. salt	1 egg
1 t. sugar	salt and pepper to taste
1/2 C. milk or water
Beat egg well. Gradually add the flour and salt and sugar
to make a smooth paste. Add milk slowly, thinning the mixture
until it is practically a liquid. Beat constantly so there are
no lumps.
Put about 3 Tb. Of batter on a hot well-greased skillet about
8 inches in diameter. Turn pan from side to side in order to
spread the batter quickly. Fry until light brown on one side
only. Turn onto a cloth, fried side up.
Saute minced onions in butter until brown. Add to mashed
potatoes. Beat egg and add to mixture. Season and beat until
smooth and fluffy. Place filling in center of each pancake on
the friend side. Fold dough over in envelope fashion. Fry each
blintze in butter until golden brown. Serve with sour cream.
The unfried blintzes can be kept in the icebox overnight and
fried when needed. They should be removed from the icebox 1
to 2 hours before serving time so that filling is not ice cold
when they are fried.
When making larger quantities than given above, figure on
using 1 average potato to fill every 2 blintzes.
COTTAGE CHEESE PATTIES
Fanny Haber
1 lb. cottage cheese	1 t. sugar
1/4 C. cracker meal	1/4 t cinnamon (optional)
1 egg	pie crust dough
Make rich pie curst. Roll out thin Cut in approximate 3
inch squares. To make filling mix above ingredients until
smooth. Place Tb. of cheese mixture on each square. Fold
corners to form triangles. Place on greased shallow baking
pan. Dot liberally with shortening or butter. Bake one hour
in 350° oven. Will make 12 to 14 patties. May be served with sour cream.
CHEESE KREPLACH I
June Weiss
Dough:	Filling:
3 Well beaten eggs	1 lb. cottage cheese
6 C. flour	1/2 Tb. Butter
1 1/2 C. water	1 Tb. sour or sweet cream
pinch salt	Salt and pepper to taste
Mix dough ingredients to form a medium loose dough. Divide
dough into several sections. Roll out each section 1/8 inch
thick. Cut into 3 inch squares. Place a spoonful of filling
in center of each square. Fold dough over to form triangles.
Pinch edges to seal well. After about 1/2 dozen kreplach are
made cover them with bowl to keep moist while preparing remain-
ing ones. Boil in hot slightly salted water about 25 minutes.
Remove kreplach and place immediately in cold water. Remove
from water and drain on a board, then fry lightly in butter
until golden brown. Serve hot with sour cream.
CHEESE KREPLACH II
Estelle Cohan
Dough:
1/2 Pint Sour cream	3 C. sifted flour
2 eggs beaten	3 t. baking powder
4 Tb. Melted butter	1 t. salt
Mix sour cream with well beaten eggs and butter. Sift dry ingredients together and add to above mixture. Knead 1 1/2
minutes -- roll until 1/4 inch thick. Cut off 4 inch squares
on each square place one Tb. Of cheese filling. Fold dough
over cheese to make triangles, pinching ends firmly together.
or until brown. Makes one dozen.
Filling:
1/4 lb. Cream cheese	1 egg beaten
1/2 lb. cottage cheese	2 Tb. Melted butter
Blend cheeses together -- add egg and melted butter and
mix well.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520075)
PIROZHKI
Mme. Pargment
pie dough	cooked rice
cooked soup meat	salt and pepper to taste
2 onions	chicken fat or oil
Grind meat with onions. Add seasonings and enough rice to
make mixture hold together. Fry this gently in a little fat
or oil.
Roll dough to 1/8 inch thickness. Cut into 1-2 inch rounds.
Place a tablespoon of filling mixture on each round. Fold
dough over to form a semi-circle and seal edges. Bake in a
450° oven until brown. Serve as an accompaniment to borscht
or other soup.
PIROZHKI FILLING
1/2 lb. cooked salmon	cooked rice
2 hard-cooked eggs	salt
a few mushrooms		pepper
Chop the salmon, hard-cooked eggs and mushrooms; mix to-
gether with rice, salt and pepper. Place some of the filling
on oval of unbaked pastry and cover with another oval of pastry,
pressing down the edges. Repeat until all ingredients are
used. Let them stand 1/2 hour; bake in moderate oven (350°)
20 to 25 minutes.
OTHER PIROZHKI FILLINGS:
1. Fry a chopped onion in fat until light brown. Combine with
ground left-over meat.
2. Fry chopped onion in butter. Combine with riced potatoes.
3. Chop a hard-cooked egg. Combine with 3/4 C. cooked rice.
Season to taste.
4. Drain 1 lb. sauerkraut. Cook in saucepan until almost dry.
Chop an onion, fry in 2 Tb. fat. Combine fat and onion with
sauerkraut.
5. Combine fruit conserve with chopped nuts.
6. Chop any dried fruits, such as prunes, apricots, or apples,
add a little nutmeg.
PIROGEN
Faye Woronoff
1 C. sifted flour	1 egg, well beaten
3/4 t. salt	2 Tb. warm water
1/2 C. cooked riced potatoes	1/2 C. shortening
Mix and sift flour and salt, add to potato. Make a well
and add the egg and water. Mix well. Turn out on lightly
floured board and knead until light and elastic. Roll out
1/4 inch thick. Cut with a floured 2 1/2 inch cutter. Roll
out circles until they measure 3 1/2 inches. Fill with 2
Tb. of filling. Fold in half to form a semi-circle. Seal
edges tightly. Turn 4 pirogen at a time into 1 quart boiling
salted water. Boil 5 minutes, remove, drain, then fry in
shortening until golden brown on each side. Serve with sour
cream. (Makes about 14).
A standard yeast dough or pastry dough can also be used for
Pirogen. With these types of dough the Pirogen are baked
rather than boiled, on a well-greased pan in a 375°oven until
nicely browned.
PIROGEN FILLINGS
I CHEESE
1 lb. Farmer Cheese	2 Tb. sugar
2 eggs separated	2 Tb. honey
1/2 t. salt	1 Tb. bread crumbs
Combine cheese, yolks, and other ingredients. Beat egg
whites stiff and fold into cheese. Makes 2 C. filling.
II POTATO
2 C. mashed potatoes	1/4 C. Chicken fat or other
1/2 C. minced onion	shortening
1/2 t. salt	1/8 t. pepper
Saute onions in fat until brown. Add with seasonings to
potatoes. Mix well.
III. GROUND LUNG MEAT: See Appetizers Section, page 62.
IV. CHOPPED MEAT
1 lb. ground beef	1 egg
2-3 onions minced	salt and pepper to taste
fat	garlic (optional)
Saute the onion in the fat until brown. Add to the raw meat
along with the egg, season to taste, and mix thoroughly.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520076)
VERENICKES WITH CREAM CHEESE
Paste:	Filling:
2 C. flour	1 lb. cream cheese
2 eggs	Sour cream
Yolks of 2 eggs	2 egg whites
1/2 t. salt	pinch of salt
cold water
Make a stiff paste of the flour, the whole eggs and the yolks,
salt, and a little cold water. Roll out very thin and cut into
rounds, about three inches in diameter. Mix cream cheese, a
little sour cream, egg whites, and salt, and put a little of
the mixture on each round of pastry. Fold over. Press edges
together, moistening with a little water. Poach in boiling
salted water fifteen minutes. Serve with sour cream.
VERENICKES WITH FRUIT
2 lb. plums, cherries, or	3 egg yolks
blueberries	1 C. water
1 C. sugar	Salt
3 C. flour
Wash fruit, cover with sugar and allow to stand. Drain the
juice and boil to a syrup. If using cherries, crush a few
pits and boil with the juice. Make a pastry by mixing the
flour, egg yolks, water, and salt. Roll very thin and uniform.
Cut into 3-inch circles. Place some of the drained fruit on
each circle, dab edges with slightly beaten white of egg,
fold over and press edges together with fork. Drop into
boiling salted water. Drain and serve on a hot place with
sugar, or the fruit syrup, or sour cream, or all three.
KASHA -- VARNITCHKES (OR VERENICKES)
1 C. buckwheat groats	4 Tb. chicken fat or butter
2 egg yolks	1 C. cooked noodle squares or
4 C. boiling water	bow-knots (verenickes)
1 t. salt	1 onion minced and sauted
	(optional)
Brown groats in heated frying pan stirring constantly to
prevent burning. Stir in egg yolks until grains are coated.
Add water, stirring constantly. Add salt and cook until
tender over moderate heat. Drain off any excess water, add
fat and sauted onions (if used) and noodles. Turn into a
casserole and place in 400° oven for 10-15 minutes until
evenly browned. Serves 3-4.
BREADS


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520077)
HALLAH
Hallah is literally that portion of dough used in baking which
according to the law was to be separated and dedicated to God.
During the time when the temple was in existence it was given
to the Priest. Afterwards the custom developed of throwing a
piece of raw dough into the fire to symbolize what formerly
went to the Priest. Since the kneading of the dough was done
by women, it was one of the few duties which developed upon
them exclusively, such as lighting the Sabbath lamps. It was
a frequent custom; to accompany the separation of the Hallah
by making a gift and for this purpose "Hallah boxes" were often
placed in Jewish kitchens and the money collected in them
generally sent to Palestine. From its connection with the
piece of dough, the term Hallah has come to be applied to the
Sabbath or holiday loaf of bread.
MOTHERS'S HALLAH
Ethel Benjamin
This recipe makes two medium sized loaves. It can also be
used for other breads and rolls. (See variations, page 157.)
5 heaping C. flour	1/2 Tb. salt
1 cake yeast	sprinkle of nutmeg and ginger
3 Tb. sugar	(optional)
1/2 C. luckewarm water	1 egg
2 Tb. oil	1 C. water
Make a well in flour. Crumble yeast into well with 1 Tb. of
sugar and the 1/2 C. lukewarm water. Sprinkle some of the flour
lightly over the ingredients in the well, and let stand to rise
for a couple of hours. After first rising, add 2 Tb. of oil
and the salt. Sprinkle with nutmeg and ginger if desired. Add
egg and remaining sugar. Mix thoroughly and add approximately
1 C. of water until flour mixture is completely absorbed. Mix
well and let rise again for 1/2 hour.
Flour a board and knead dough until fairly hard. Shape
into loaf or braid and place in a pan floured on the bottom
only. Bake at 350° until medium brown. Brush tops with melted
butter or beaten egg before baking.
157
HALLAH
June Weiss
6 C. flour	1 Tb. Shortening
1 1/2 C. warm water	1 Tb. salt
2 eggs	2 Cakes yeast
1 t. sugar
Put flour into large pan. Add water, eggs, sugar, shorten-
ing and salt. Crumble in the yeast. Mix together well to
form dough. Let rise 30 minutes. Knead again. Let rise 30
minutes. Put on mixing board. Let rise again 15 minutes.
Form into loaves. Put into baking pans. Let rise again 15
minutes. Brush cold water evenly over tops of loaves with
hands. Then brush with egg yolk. Sprinkle with caraway
seeds. Bake 1 hour at 375°.
VARIATIONS FOR HALLAH DOUGH
1. Bread can be sprinkled with poppy seeds or farina before
baking.
2. An onion or two can be diced up and kneaded into dough
during the last step to make a delicious onion bread.
3. More sugar and raisins can be added to make a sweet
Purim Hallah.
4. The dough can be used to make rolls or a soft type of
bagel. To make bagels, follow instructions for bagel recipe,
see page 159.
5. A very nice way to shape the Hallah is to divide the
dough into four parts. Make a large braid with the first 3
strips. Divide the 4th strip into 3 parts and make a slender
braid with them. Place the small braid down the center of
the large braid, pressing it lightly into the groove, and
sealing all ends together firmly. This makes a very attract-
ive and traditionally shaped loaf.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520078)
RYE BREAD
Muriel Cohen and Ruth Bernard
for two loaves:
2 C. lukewarm water	1 T. salt
1/2 oz. dry yeast (2 pkgs)	4 C. white flour
T. sugar	3 T. caraway seeds
1 1/2 - 2 C. rye flour (or more if necessary)
Do not use stone ground flour, the texture is too course.
Dissolve the yeast in 1/2 C. water, add remaining water,
sugar, salt, white flour and caraway seed and stir for a
minute or two with a heavy spoon until creamy. Cover with
a damp cloth and let stand 3-4 hours in a warm place.
(The sponge will be very sticky). Stir in enough rye
flour to make a firm dough and knead about 5 minutes.
Put in a lightly oiled bowl. Cover with a damp cloth and let
rise in a warm place until doubled - about 50 minutes.
Punch down and knead for 3 minutes, adding enough rye
flour to make a firm dough which will hold its shape.
Divide in two and shape into two loaves. Put loaves on
a baking sheet sprinkled with cornmeal and let rise
uncovered in a warm place until less than doubled - about
50 minutes. Heat oven to 425 degrees and put a shallow pan
of hot water on the lowest rack. Brush loaves with salt water
(1 t. salt dissolved in 1/4 C. water) and if you like,
slash each loaf 3 or 4 times diagonally. After 20 minutes,
remove the pan of water from the oven and brush again with
salt water. Continue baking until done, 50 minutes to
1 hour. Remove bread to racks to cool and brush again with salt water.
(If you like kimmel ryo, when you shape the loaves, knead
into each loaf 1 teaspoon of kimmekl.)
BAGELS
Louise Morrison
This recipe makes a soft "egg" type bagel. It is not as
hard and dense as the typical "water" type; bagel.
5 C. flour	2 t. salt
1 cake yeast	3 Tb. shortening
1 C. warm water	2 eggs beaten
2 Tb. sugar	poppy seeds (optional)
Place flour in a large bowl. Dissolve crumbled yeast in
water and add sugar. Make a well in the flour and add the
salt and shortening. When the yeast begins to rise on top
of water and looks bubbly and soft, pour the mixture into
the batter from center outward until it is thoroughly blended.
When stiff knead with hands in the bowl. If it is necessary,
more water can beaded at this point to absorb the flour.
Cover bowl with a towel and let rise a couple of hours until
double in bulk. Then punch dough down by kneading again and
let rise a second time, approximately 1 hour.
Cut off pieces of the dough and roll with hands on a lightly
floured board, until you have a strip 10-12 inches long and
1/2 to 3/4 inches in diameter. Join edges of strip to make
a large ring. Repeat this process until dough is used up.
This should make approximately two dozen bagels.
Heat oven to 400° and grease the wire racks.
Place three rings at a time into rapidly boiling water for
1 to 2 minutes. Sprinkle with poppy seeds, if desired, as
bagels rise to surface of water. Remove bagels from water,
(they should be stiff enough to lift out with a fork.) Place
on racks in oven. (This process should be done as quickly-as
possible to avoid excess rising).
Bake for 15-20 minutes until first side is golden brown.
Reduce oven heat to 350° and turn bagels. Bake 10-15 minutes
longer until second side is browned.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520079)
CAKES
COOKIES and
PASTRIES


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520080)
When the pastry selections were made for this book, we know
that strudel had to be first. Regardless of nationality,
whether it be filled with cheese, fruit, cabbage, or nuts,
whether the dough be tissue thin or a cookie type, each Jew
has a strudel familiar to him. Many young Jewish homemakers
have been frightened away by the picture of their grandmothers
stretching yards of delicate dough over a huge floured table,
and have regarded this pastry as a project they are too in-
experienced to tackle. We hope that some of our simpler
recipes will allay your fears.
MRS. INGBER'S SHTRUDEL
Dough:	Filling:
3 1/2 C. flour (more if neces-	1 box raisins
sary)	3 apples grated (tart cooking
1/4 C. shortening	apples)
1 Tb. Vinegar (makes dough	1 orange and 1 lemon ground
easier to stretch)	bread crumbs
2 Tb. Sugar	sour pitted cherries and juice
1 egg	walnuts chopped
1 C. hot water	jelly (any flavor desired) <u>tart
		citron cut up
		crushed pineapple drained
		stale cake crumbled (optional)
Mix flour, shortening, sugar, vinegar and egg well. Add water
gradually beating until dough is smooth. Place dough on a very
well floured board and knead well until smooth and elastic,
working more flour into it so that the dough is not too sticky.
Divide dough into three parts (or more, if you find it easier
to handle) and roll out each part until it is as thin as
possible. Then stretch it with hands so that it is almost
transparent. While working with one part of the dough keep
the rest in a warm place, as it is easier to handle when warm
and less likely to crack. After dough is rolled to proper
thinness, sprinkle lightly with melted shortening.
Mix raisins, grated apples, grated orange and lemon, bread
crumbs, and the juice from the sour cherries and cook over a
low flame until thick and pasty. Cool. Place this mixture
on one end of the dough in a long line. Lightly spread the
remaining ingredients over the rest of the area of dough.
Carefully roll in jelly roll fashion starting at the end with
the long line of filling. Stretch the roll as you go along
so that it is not too large in diameter. This will make about
a 3 foot long roll. Cut roll into three parts, sealing cut
edges, and place in well-greased baking dish. Brush tops
lightly with melted shortening, and sprinkle lightly with
cinnamon and sugar.
Repeat this process for the two remaining parts of the dough.
Bake at 350° for 40 minutes until nicely browned. When cool,
cut in serving slices, sprinkle top with confectioners sugar.
APPLE SHTRUDEL
Dough:	Filling:
1 3/4 C. flour	3/4 C. butter
1/4 t. salt	1 1/4 C. bread crumbs
1 egg	3 lb. tart apples
1 Tb. oil	raisins and walnuts
5 Tb. Water	sugar and cinnamon
Beat egg, oil, and water together. Add to the flour and
salt, blending it together for about 15 minutes. Form dough
into a smooth round ball and place it in a tightly covered
bowl for 1 hour. Divide dough into three parts and roll and
fill each part separately. Roll each piece very thin and
stretch it so that it is almost transparent.
Melt butter and allow to cool. Brush each piece of rolled
dough with 1/3 of the butter. Sprinkle the dough with the
bread crumbs. Dice the apples and spread over dough along
with some of the raisins and nuts. Sprinkle the sugar-cinnamon
mixture over all. Roll as for a jelly roll, stretching the
roll in length as you go, so that the diameter of the roll is
not too large. Place rolls in a greased pan and brush tops
with oil. Bake for 45 minutes at 350°. When cool, cut into
slices and sprinkle with powdered sugar.
SHTRUDEL
PINEAPPLE JUICE DOUGH SHTRUDEL
Fay Woronoff
Dough:	Filling:
1/2 C. sugar	Apples, sprinkled with sugar
1/2 C. pineapple juice	and cinnamon
2 eggs	Any well drained canned fruit
1/2 C. salad oil	Jelly
1-1/2 t. baking powder	Cocoanut
1/2 t. salt	Nuts
Flour	Raisins
To make dough, combine sugar and pineapple juice and just
bring to a boil. Cool. Add rest of ingredients, using enough
flour to make soft dough that can be rolled. Spread your
favorite filling in rows, making different combinations.
Sprinkle on bread crumbs or a little tapioca to take up the
excessive juice of moist canned fruit. Roll as for jelly roll.
Bake at 350° until light brown. (Do not take out too soon or
dough in center may not be thoroughly baked and will be soggy.)
Slice with wet knife while hot and remove from pan immediately.
If to be kept more than a few days, in refrigerator.
<b>Poppy Seed Filling: 3 cans poppy seed filling, nuts, coconut and raisins. Bake strudel 350 degree oven.</b>


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520081)
SOUR CREAM DOUGH SHTRUDEL
Rae Lampe
This recipe was discovered at an Hadassah
regional convention where it was served. After you've tried it, you'll agree with
Rae that, "...it pays to go to conventions?"
Dough:	Filling:
1 C. sour cream	1 jar apricot preserves
1 C. butter	1/3 pkg. grated coconut
2 C. flour	1 4-oz. pkg. walnuts chopped
1 Tb. powdered sugar	1 small jar maraschino cherries
1 t. salt	cut up.
To make dough, mix all ingredients together thoroughly and
form into a ball. Place in a covered bowl and chill in refrig-
erator over night. Divide dough into three parts and roll each
separately between two pieces of wax paper. Roll as thin as possible.
Spread a layer of jam over the entire area of the rolled
dough. Sprinkle the other filling ingredients lightly over
the jam. Roll up as for a jelly roll. Tuck the ends of the
roll in so that the filling is all covered with dough and can
not run. Place rolls on an ungreased cookie sheet and bake
for 40 minutes or until delicately browned in a 350° oven.
Cut into slices of desired size while hot.
SHTRUDEL-CAKE ROLL
Fay Woronoff
<u>Dough</u>:	<u>Filling</u>:
1 C. shortening	Apples, sprinkled with sugar
1 C. sugar	and cinnamon
1 egg	Any drained canned fruit
3 full C. flour, sifted	Jelly
1 t. baking powder	Cocoanut
1 t. baking soda	Nuts
3/4 C. orange juice	Raisins
1 t. vanilla
To make dough, cream sugar and shortening. Add other ingre-dients, leaving flour until last. Add enough flour to form
fairly loose dough. (Too much flour will make the dough tough).
Divide into five or six portions. Roll out one at a time on
floured board, patting down with hand quite a bit. Spread any
combination of fillings in rows. If canned fruit that is quite
moist is used, sprinkle on bread crumbs or a little tapioca to
take up the juice in baking. Roll as for jelly roll. This will
be very difficult to roll, but moisten hands and keep patching
holes in dough where necessary. Transfer to cookie sheet.
Bake in medium oven until light brown. Slice while hot. If
to be kept more than a day or two, store in refrigerator.
APPLESAUCE CAKE
Tillie Gerber
1/2 C. butter (1)
1 C. sugar (2)
3 eggs (5) beaten until light
1/2 C. chopped nuts (1)
C. chopped raisins or currants (2)
C. sifted cake flour(4)
1 t. baking soda (2)
1/2 t nutmeg (1)
1/2 t cinnamon (1)
1 C. unsweetened applesauce (2)
Cream butter and sugar. Add eggs. Sift flour with
dry ingredients and spices. Add applesauce, then flour
and then stir in fruits and nuts. () indicate double recipe
to be baked in 9 X 13 pan. Bake this for 1 hour at 350. You may bake in layers for 25 minutes. Normal recipe may be baked in loaf pan or 8 X 8 square pan 350 oven for 25 min.
EGGLESS CHOCOLATE CAKE
Ella Berman
3/4 C flour	2/3 C. oil
2 C. sugar	2 C. orange juice or
1/2 C. cocoa	water
2 t. baking powder
Sift dry ingredients. Make a well and add oil and liquid.
Beat well until blended. Bake	in a 9 X 13 greased pan at
350 degrees for 30-35 minutes. Frost if desired.
APPLE SQUARES
Ella Berman
2 C. flour	1 t. cinnamon
1 3/4 C. sugar	3 eggs
1 C. oil	1 C. chopped walnuts
1 t. baking soda	2 apples grated
1/2 t. salt
Sift dry ingredients. Mix until fluffy, oil, eggs and
sugar. Add apples and mix. Stir in flour, add nuts and
pour into 3 quart greased glass baking dish. Bake 325 degree
oven for 1 hour. Cool and cut into squares. May be dusted
with powdered sugar or served with whipped topping.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520082)
LITHUANIAN GOOSEBERRY KUCHEN OR SHTRUDEL
Rhea Kish
3 eggs	1/2 C. sugar
1 Tb. Water	2 t. baking powder
1/2 C. shortening	1/2 t. salt
1 t. lemon extract	approximately 2 C. flour
grated rind of a lemon	Gooseberry or any tart jam
Beat eggs well. Add water and 1/2 C. sugar and lemon rind.
Mix well. Melt shortening and allow to cool. Add to the
egg mixture along with the lemon extract. Sift dry ingred-
ients together and add enough of the flour to the mixture
to make a dough which can be rolled.
Divide dough in half, and roll out one half at a time.
Roll into a rectangle about 1/8 inch thick. Spread generous-
ly with gooseberry jam or any tart heavy jam. Sprinkle
generously with the following:
grated coconut	tiny currants
chopped nuts	chopped dried fruits, (dates,
raisins	apricots, prunes)
	dried peel fruit or citron
Not all of the above ingredients are essential, but can be
used according to taste. When dough is thoroughly covered
with filling ingredients, roll as for a jelly roll. Repeat
for other half of dough. Place rolls on a greased cookie
sheet and bake in a 375° oven for 20 minutes to a half hour.
When cool slice in 1/2 to 1 inch pieces.
The torte is the Jewish counterpart of the pie, with this
difference: whereas in the pie, the filling plays the most
important part, in the torte, the filling must share honors
equally with the crumbly cookie dough crust that surrounds
it. Like the pie, however, the torte may be filled with any
kind of fruit, and instead of a top layer of dough, a lattice
top may be used.
HUNGARIAN APPLE CAKE OR TORTE
Mrs. Kish
12 apples, pared and sliced	1 egg
1 C. sugar	grated rind of 1 lemon
1/2 lb. sweet butter	5 Tb. sour cream (when making
3 C. flour	cookies, use half milk and
1/4 t. salt	half sour cream)
Minute tapioca	extra sugar
	apricot jam and cinnamon and walnuts
Sprinkle 1/4 C. sugar over apples and let stand while pre-
paring dough. Crumble together the butter, flour, salt and
3 T. of sugar into a course mixture. Make a well in the
center and add the egg and lemon rind. Blend together. Add
4 To. of the sour cream and blend. Add the rest of the sour
cream, blending well. Knead dough on a floured board until
smooth. Divide into three parts.
Roll out one part of dough on lightly floured board and
place on bottom and partly up the sides of a greased large
cake pan. Prick the dough with a fork. Sprinkle just enough
Minute Tapioca to cover dough. Sprinkle dough with l/S C.
sugar. Spread apples over and sprinkle with 1/4 C. sugar
and lightly with cinnamon.
Roll out second part of dough quite thin and cover apples.
Trim off excess and prick with fork. Spread with thick
apricot jam. Roll out third part of dough (not so thin) and
cut into long strips. Lay strips over top diagonally. Stir
an egg white lightly and brush over strips. Sprinkle with
chopped walnuts and a little sugar. Bake 1 hour at 350&deg.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520083)
MRS. INGBER'S APPLE CAKE OF TORTE
Dough:	4 C. flour
1 C. sugar	2 t. baking powder
1/2 C. shortening or butter	Filling:
2 eggs	5-6 large tart cooking apples
1/4 t. salt	unpeeled
1 C. liquid (juice of 1 lemon juice of 1/2 lemon
and 1 orange)	3/4 - 1 C. sugar to taster
	1 t. cinnamon
Cream sugar and shortening well. Add eggs and beat thorough-
ly. Mix dry ingredients and add to batter alternately with
the liquid, mixing thoroughly. Roll approximately 1/2 the
dough on a floured board to 1/4 inch thickness. place in greased
9&times;13&times;2 pan and spread the dough so that it lines the bottom
and sides of the pan. A larger pan can be used if desired.
The recipe will make one 9&times;13&times;2 inch cake with a little dough
left over for cookies. Half the recipe will fill an 8&times;8&times;2 inch
pan.
To make filling, remove core from the apples and without
peeling, grate them on a very coarse grater, sprinkle with
lemon juice and add sugar to taste. Amount will depend upon
the natural sweetness of the apples. Add cinnamon and mix
well. Spread filing over dough in pan evenly. Sprinkle
the top lightly with a sugar cinnamon mixture.
Roll other half of dough to 1/4 inch thickness. Place on
top of layer of apples and pinch it against the sides of the
pan to seal over filling. Sprinkle lightly with a few
drops of water and then rather generously with the sugar and
cinnamon mixture. Mark off squares by cutting through the
top layer of dough, just to level of apples. Prick the center
of each square to allow steam to escape. Bake at 350° 40 min-
utes or until lightly browned.
This dough can be kept in the refrigerator for about 1 week
and used as needed. It is also good for little cookies made
with a cutter or rolled by hand, and then dipped in a sugar
cinnamon mixture or nuts.
HONEY CAKE I
Mrs. Ben Kaplan
4 eggs
1 C. white sugar	5 1/2 C. flour
1 C. brown sugar	2 t. baking soda
6 Tb. Oil	2 t. baking powder
1 1b. honey slightly warm	2 t. cinnamon
1 C. warm strong coffee	1 C. walnute or almonds chopped
grated rind and juice of an	10-12 half walnut meats
orange
Beat eggs well. Add sugar, oil. Honey, Coffee and orange
juice and rind. Mix thoroughly. Shift all dry ingredients
and add gradually to mixture, mixing well. Add chopped nuts.
Bake in two large greased loaf pans. Place half walnut
meats on top of cake. Bake at 325 degrees for 1 hour.
HONEY CAKE II
Hannah Zwerdling
3 C. flour	1 C. strong coffee
1 1/2 t. baking powder	1 C. honey
1 t. baking soda	1 C. shortening
1 t. cinnamon	4 eggs, separated
1/2 t. mixed spices	1 C. brown sugar
1/2 t.ginger. 1/2 lemon, juice and rind
1/4 t. salt
Sift dry ingredients. Cream shortening and sugar. Add
four egg yolks and honey and mix well. Then add flour and
coffee alternately. Add juice of the lemon and little rind
and beat well. Beat egg whites until stiff and fold in.
Pt into 2 greased loaf pans which have been sprinkled
with flour. Bake at 350° for one hour.
RUSSIAN COFFEE CAKE
Esther Cook
1/2 C. sugar	2 C. sifted flour
2 eggs, well beaten	1 t. cinnamon
3/4 C. honey	1/2 t. baking powder
2 Tb. Oil	1/2 t. baking soda
1/2 C. hot dark tea	3/8 C. chopped nuts
2 Tb. Whiskey	grated rind of 1 lemon
Mix all ingredients together and beat well. Pour into
greased loaf pan which has been lined with waxed paper on
bottom. Bake at 325° for 45 minutes to 1 hour.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520084)
YEAST CAKE
Basic Sweet Dough Recipe
2 Cakes fresh or dry yeast	2 well beaten eggs
2 C. lukewarm milk	7 to 7 1/2 C. enriched flour
1 C. sugar	1/2 C. melted butter
2 t. salt
Crumble yeast .into mixing bowl. Stir in lukewarm milk, sugar,
and salt and let stand until yeast is dissolved. Stir in well-
beaten eggs. Add half of the flour. Beat until mixture drops
from spoon in a steady stream about 5 minutes. Stir in melted
butter. Stir in remaining flour with hand, adding just enough
to make a soft dough. Mix well. Then knead until smooth and elastic. Round up.
Place in floured bowl, cover with cloth. Let rise in warm
place. When double in bulk punch down and cover. Let rise
again overnight. Dough will be just right in morning for
coffee cakes, or coffee rings. Prepare and shape as desired
with sugar, cinnamon, raisins and nuts. Bake at 375° until nicely browned. Baking time will depend upon bulk of the rolls or
loaves made.
REFRIGERATOR YEAST DOUGH
Mrs. Steiner
4 C. flour	1 C. sugar
2 cakes yeast	6 eggs
1/2 lb. oleo only (butter is 	1 1/2 C. milk, cold
too heavy, vegetable short-
ening not rich enough)
Dissolve yeast in milk. Cut oleo into flour with knife or
pastry blender as for a pie crust. Beat eggs well and add to
flour mixture. Add yeast and milk to flour mixture. Mix well.
No kneading necessary. Cover and place in refrigerator. This
dough can keep 1 to 2 weeks, and can be used as needed, for
coffee cake, rolls, etc. When ready to use, remove dough from
refrigerator and let rise at room temperature for 1 hour. Then
form into desired shapes and let rise again until double in
volume. Bake at 350°, time depends upon bulk of what is made.
PUTTERCHUCHEN
Dorothy Willer
1 2/3 C scalded milk	1/3 C. warm milk
2 Cakes yeast	6 eggs beaten
2/3 C. sugar	7 to 7 1/2 C. flour
1/2 lb. oleo or butter	1/2 t. salt
Dissolve yeast in the 1/3 C. of milk. Let stand. Put
butter into scalded milk until melted. Add sugar. When milk
and butter are cool, add yeast mixture. Add beaten eggs. Then
add flour to mixture, a small amount at a time until dough is
stiff enough to knead. Knead until smooth and elastic. Let
rise to double in bulk. Punch down, knead slightly, let rise
again. Take 1/2 dough and roll to 1/3 inch thickness. Sprinkle
with sugar, cinnamon, brown sugar, melted butter, and nut meats
if desired. Roll as for jelly roll. Cut in 1 1/2" pieces,
place cut side on buttered pan or in muffin tins. Bake at
375° until well browned, about 20 minutes. Use remainder of
dough as desired. Shape rolls, loaves, etc. -- raisins also
can be added.
KULICH
Mme. Pargment
This is a sweet rich cake characteristic of Old Russia's
holiday breads.
1 C. milk	1 C. sugar
1/2 lb. butter	4 eggs
2 cakes yeast	6 C. flour
1/4 C. water warm	3/4 to 1 C. raisins (seedless)
Scald milk. When hot add the butter and let it melt. When
the liquid is cool add the yeast which has been softened in
the warm water. Add sugar, eggs and flour, and mix well. Add
raisins. No kneading is necessary. Cover dough and let rise
in a warm place a few hours. Put dough into two buttered and
floured pans and let rise again until double in bulk before
baking. Use 1 lb. coffee cans as pans. If desired let dough
rise above top of can in mushroom shape, or else place a wax
paper extension above top of can to form tall cylinders. Bake
in 400 degree oven 45 minutes. Slice in circles to serve.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520085)
PARVE CAKE
Esther Cook
1/2 C. Spry	4 eggs
1/2 C. orange juice	2 1/2 C. flour
1 1/2 C. sugar	2 1/2 Tb. Baking powder
Cream shortening and sugar. Add egg and beat well. Add
Juices. Shift dry ingredients together and add, gradually to
mixture. Bake in greased 8&times;8&times;2 pan at 350° for one hour.
ORANGE FRUIT CAKE
Rose friedman
1/2 C. butter	1 t. baking soda
1/2 C. white sugar	1 C. buttermilk
1/2 c. brown sugar	1 C. dates chopped
2 eggs	1/2 C. walnuts chopped
2 Tb. orange rind	1/4 C. flour
2 C. flour
Cream butter with sugar until light and fluffy. Add eggs
and beat well. Add orange rind, then sifted flour and baking
soda alternately with the milk. Mix dates and nuts with 1/4
C. flour and add to mixture. Put into a greased and lightly
floured 8&times;8&times;2 inch cake pan. Bake at 350° for 40 minutes.
ICING
Juice of one orange	1/4 to 1/2 C. sugar
remaining grated rind
While cake is baking, mix juice, rind and sugar and allow
to stand, stirring occasionally. After removing cake form
oven, pour this mixture over it. Allow cake to cool in pan.
CARROT AND NUT CAKE
3 eggs separated	1/2 C. chopped walnuts
1/2 C. shortening	1 C. flour
1 C. sugar	2 t. baking powder
1 t. lemon juice	1/8 t. salt
1 C. grated carrots
Beat egg yolks and sugar well. And shoring and lemon
juice, beating until smooth. Add carrots and nuts mixing
thoroughly, then gradually blend in flour and baking powder.
Beat egg whites until stiff and fold into mixture. Bake in
a greased tube pan in a 350° oven for 35 minutes for until
done.
AUNT LENA'S
Cheese cake
Eunice Cook
This recipe is the only one Eunice knows that is cheese cake
with a "Yiddisha Tom". It was given to her by an aunt who
demonstrated it for a Haddassah Chapter. The secret lies in
the use of Farmer Cheese which gives it its unique taste.
The farmer cheese is very easy to handle, blends easily, is
moist and not crumbly like cottage cheese. It has a delicious
flavor.
Crust:	1/2 t. salt
18 graham crackers	1 can evaporated milk (large)
1/4 C. butter melted	1 t. vanilla
Filling:	2 Tb. lemon juice
1 lb. farmer cheese	2 Tb. flour
1 C. sugar	4 eggs separated
Break graham crackers into fine crumbs and mix well with
melted butter. Pat mixture onto the bottom of an 8&times;12 inch
Pan to from an even crust.
Mix all the filling ingredients together except the egg
whites. Beat well so that mixture is smooth and creamy.
Beat the egg whites until stiff and fold gently into the
cake mixture. Pour into crumb curst and bake for 1 hour at
350°. Allow cake cool in oven with the door open. This
prevents excess falling in. However, the cake will drop a
little. Don't worry about it as it is unavoidable.
FAYAGA'S CHEESE PIE
Mildred carron
Make a graham cracker crust. Reserve 1/2 C. to decorate top.
Double recipe for 9&times;13 pan.
8 oz. cream cheese	2 eggs-add one at a time
2 T. flour	2/3 C. milk
2 T. soft butter	1 small (flat tin crushed
pineapple
Use electric mixer. Add one ingredient at a time. Bake
35 minutes in 350 degree oven


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520086)
HAMANTASHEN DOUGH
Ada Margolis
2 1/2 C. Flour	1/4 C. melted butter
2 t. baking powder	1 egg
1/2 C. sugar	3/4 c. Milk
Mix well the flour baking powder, salt, sugar, butter, egg
and milk, and knead well. Roll the dough out thin, and out
into rounds 2 inches in diameter. Place a spoonful of Haman-
tashen filling in center of each round, draw up three sides,
a buttered cookie sheet, and bake at 375 degrees for 30-45
minutes or until delicately brown.
HAMANTASHEN COOKIE DOUGH
Ada Margolis
1/2 C. Butter	2 t. baking powder
1 C. sugar	2 Tb. Milk
1 Egg	Vanilla or lemon flavoring
2 C. flour
Cream together the butter and sugar, and add the egg. Mix
and sift flour and baking powder, and add a little of this
mixture to the creamed butter and sugar. Add the milk. Add
remaining flour mixture. Add flavouring extract. Roll dough
out, out into rounds, fill with a spoonful of filling, form
into triangles and bake at 375 degrees of 15-30 minutes until
delicately browned.
Any sweet yeast cake can be used for Hamantashen.
Some people prefer an unsweetend Hallah dough. When using
yeast dough, roll as thin as possible, shape and fill, and
then allow cakes to stand a while to rise before baking. Use
oven temperature recommended for the type of dough used.
Bake until lightly browned.
HAMANTASHEN POPPY SEED FILLING I
Ada Margolis
1 egg	1/4 lb. poppy seeds
1/4 C. sugar
Pour boiling water over poppy seeds, let stand until seeds
have settled at bottom, and drain. Put seeds through finest
blade of food chopper. Add egg, stirring it in well, and
sugar, and mix thoroughly.
HAMANTASHEN POPPY SEED NUT FILLING
Ada Margolis
1 C. poppy seeds	2 Tb. Corn syrup
2 Tb. butter	1 C. milk
1/2 C. chopped nuts	1 Tb. Chopped citron
1/2 C. raisins	1 t. vanilla
Put poppy seed through finest blade of the food chopper
and mix with remaining ingredients, except vanilla. Let mix-
ture cook over slow fire until thick, stirring often. Let
cool and add vanilla
HAMANTASHEN PRUNE FILLING
Ada Margolis
Grated rind of 1 lemon	1/2 lb. prunes
2 t. lemon juice
Soak prunes over night. Cook in water in which they were
soaked until sort. Drain well. Remove stones form prunes
and cut into small pieces. Mix with grated rind and juice
of lemon.
GRANDMA SADIE'S HAMANTASCHEN
7 C. flour-measure, then sift	4eggs-beaten
1 lb. butter of oleo	2 t. vanilla
2 C. sugar	1/4 C. milk
2 t. baking powder
Cream butter and sugar until light. Add eggs, vanilla and
milk. Sift baking powder with flour and stir into butter.
chill until firm enough to handle.
Roll out on floured pastry cloth. Cut in rounds and fill
with a teaspoon of ready-to-use poppy seed, apricot or
almond filling. Press 3 edges to middle to form a 3 sided
cookie. Bake at 375 degrees 15 minutes or until brown.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520087)
EGG KICHLACH
Estelle Cohan
1 1/4 C. sifted flour	1/4 t. salt
1 t. baking powder	2 eggs
Sift dry ingredients together. Beat eggs, add to dry ingred-
ients and mix to a soft dough. Knead dough well. Roll out to
1/4 inch thickness. Sprinkle with sugar. Prick all over with
a fork. Cut into diamonds about 3 inches long. Sprinkle pan
with flour. Place Kichles on it. Bake at 375° until brown,
about 20 minutes.
KICHLACH
Amelia Needle
1 1/4 C. flour	1/4 t. salt
2 Tb. Sugar	3 eggs
1/2 C. oil	3 Tb. fine poppy seeds (optional)
Sift together dry ingredients. Make a well in the center
and add eggs. Beat with a fork until smooth. Add oil and mix
well. Drop from a teaspoon on lightly greased cookie sheet at
least 1 inch apart. Bake 20 minutes at 325° until lightly brown
at edges and puffed.
SNOW BALLS OR HEIZENBLOZEN
2 eggs	1/2 C. powdered sugar
1/8 t. salt	1 t. cinnamon
1 1/3 C. flour (approx.)	oil or shortening for deep frying.
Mix eggs, salt and flour and knead until the dough is soft.
and elastic. Roll out on a lightly floured board to a thick
sheet. Cut into 2 inch squares. Make a slit through the center
of each square and pull one corner of the square through the
slit. Drop into hot fat and fry until a delicate brown, turn-
ing if necessary. They must be watched so that they do not
become too brown. They will puff into all sorts of odd shapes
while frying. Drain on absorbent paper and while hot, sprinkle
with powdered sugar and cinnamon.
LOVE KNOTS
Tillie Gerber
Work together with hands:
1 C. butter	4 raw egg yolks
2 C. flour	1 cooked, crumbled egg yolk
1/2 C. sugar
Chill one hour. Pinch off small portions and roll into
lengths 3/8 inches thick. Tie loose bowknots. Bake 350
for 12-15 minutes until slightly brown. Makes 5 dozen.
POPPY SEED COOKIES
Anya Finkie
4 C.	flour (more if necessary)	3 eggs
1 t.	baking powder	1/2 C. poppy seeds
1 C.	oil	juice of 1 large orange
1 C.	sugar	1 t. grated orange rind
Cream sugar and eggs. Add oil and juice and then poppy
seeds. Mix thoroughly. Add dry ingredients gradually mixing
well. Roll out a small amount at a time on a well floured
board to l/8 inch thickness. Cut with cookie cutter or
glass into desired shapes. Place on a greased cookie sheet
and bake in a 350° oven for 10-15 minutes or until nicely browned.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520088)
JULIA'S NUT AND POPPY SEED ROLLS
Muriel Fisher
Dough:
1 C. butter	2 Tb. sugar
1 cake of yeast	4 egg yolks
4 C. flour	1 c. lukewarm milk
Walnut filling:	Poppy seed filling
1 1b. shelled walnuts,	1 1b poppy seeds, ground
ground	2 C. sugar
1 1/2 to 2 C. sugar	3 Tb. Lemon juice
1 medium size apple, grated	1 heaping Tb. Butter
	1 C. milk
(each filling recipe is enough to fill 1/2 of the dough).
To make dough, dissolve yeast in milk. Sift dry ingredients,
out butter into them as you would for a pie crust. Toss in
the liquids. Knead until smooth, Let rise 2 hours. Divide
into 4 parts. Roll each part very thin. Spread with the fill-
ing and roll as for a jelly roll. Bake on a lightly greased
sheet at 350° until brown. The time varies from 1/2 to 3/4 of
an hour. Slice into pieces of desired size to serve.
To make walnut filling, mix together all of the ingredients,
and add enough cold water to moisten. The amount will vary
with the size and moistness of the apples. You will probably
use from 1 to 2 Tb. The filling should be moist, not wet or
loose.
For poppy seed filling, bring all ingredients to a boil.
The mixture will be very thick and must be started on a slow
fire and stirred frequently. Cool well before using.
VARIATION:
Muriel's latest innovation is to use this same dough with a
cheese filling. She forms these into small cakes almost resemble-
ing hamantashen, rather than the usual rolls. Try them, they
are out of this world!
1 scant lb. cottage cheese	1/2 C. sugar
3 egg yolks	lemon flavoring (optional)
Put cheese through a sieve, add remaining ingredients and
beat until smooth and creamy. Cut dough into squares and
press onto bottoms of the hollows in a cupcake tin. Use one
that makes the tinyiest sized cakes. Fill each cake with a
little cheese and fold over the corners of dough toward the
center of the cake. Bake at 350° until brown.
SPICE COOKIES
Rose Friedman
1/2 C. butter	2 1/2 C. flour
1 1/2 C. brown sugar	1 heaping t. beaking soda
1/2 C. raisins chopped	1 t. cinnamon
1/2 C. walnuts chopped	1 t. mace
2 eggs	1 t. salt
1 C. milk	1 t. vanilla
2 1/2 C. oatmeal
Cream butter and sugar until light and fluffy. Add eggs and
beat well. Then add raisins, dates and nuts and blend. Add
vanilla and oatmeal and mix thoroughly. Sift flour, soda, and
spices together twice and add to mixture alternately with the
milk. Drop by teaspoonfuls onto greased cookie sheet and bake
in 375° oven until lightly browned.
CINNAMON ROLLS
Hannah Zwerdling
6 C. flour	1 1/2 C. shortening
5 t. baking powder	1 1/2 C. sugar
1 t. baking soda	5 eggs
1 t. salt	1 C. orange juice
Cream sugar and shortening until light and fluffy. Add eggs
and beat well. Sift remaining dry ingredients and add
alternately with the orange juice. Mix thoroughly. Flour a
board and divide dough into 3 parts. Roll out each part
separately to 1/4 inch thickness.
Prepare a sugar and cinnamon mixture and sprinkle it on
dough. Add chopped nuts, raisins and pieces of citron.
Roll as for a jelly roll and cut into 1 1/2 inch slices.
Place cut ends up on a greased cookie sheet. Flatten down
each roll, and sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon. Bake at
350° for 1/2 to 1 hour until lightly browned. Makes 50.
These rolls will keep well for 2 weeks.
MANDELBROT
Henrietta Sklar
1 C. sugar	2 t. baking powder
1 C. Vegetable oil	4 eggs
4 3/4 C. flour - sifted	grated rind orange
1/2 t. soda	1 T. orange juice
1 t. salt	1/2 C. chopped almonds
Mix sugar and oil in mixer. Sift flour 3 times with salt,
soda and baking powder. To sugar mixture, add eggs one at a
time. Beat well after each egg is added. Add rind of the
orange, juice and almond. Stir in flour mixture. This makes
a stiff dough. Refrigerate overnight.
Shape dough into a wide strip 1 1/2 to 2 inches by 16 inches
long. Bake on a greased sheet 350 degrees for 20 minutes.
Then cut into 1/2 inch wide slices. Slices are laid flat on
cooky sheet, sprinkled with sugar and baked for 10 minutes.
Turn bottom side up, sprinkle with sugar and return to oven
for 10 minutes more.
Mandelbrot will keep for a month in a tin. You may freeze.



---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520089)
SOUR CREAM STRAWBERRIES
Frozen Dessert
1 100z. frozen strawberries or 1 pt. fresh
1/2 C. sugar
1 pint sour cream
1 T. lemon juice
Mix sugar with strawberries and lemon juice with sour cream.
Stir together. Pour into freezer tray and freeze at least
3 hours before serving. Do not stir. Serves 4.
VERTOOTEN
LITTLE CHEESE CAKES
Sara Mintz
Dough:	Filling:
2 C. flour	1 lb. dry cottage cheese
1/4 lb. butter	2 egg yolks
1/2 t. baking powder	2 t. sugar
1/2 C. sour cream
1/4 t. baking soda
1 egg
Cream shortening, add egg and sour cream. Beat well. Add
flour and other dry ingredients to form a dough. Mix well.
Roll dough out as thin as possible. Spread with melted butter.
Put cottage cheese through a sieve, add eggs and sugar and
beat until smooth and creamy.
Spread filling over dough. Roll as for a jelly roll, cutting
the roll off the rest of the dough when it is 3/4 inch in
diameter. Repeat, making several thin rolls until the dough
is used up. Cut rolls into 3 inch lengths and form each length
into a spiral or snail shape which should be 2 to 3 inches in
diameter. Brush tops of snails with melted butter and bake at
350° for 25 minutes.
POPPY SEED CAKE
1/2 lb. butter	1 tsp. baking soda
1/2 pint sour cream	2 C. flour
1 1/2 C. sugar	3 tap. vanilla
4 eggs separated	1 box poppy seeds (2 1/2 oz.)
Mix until blended butter, sour cream, sugar and egg
yolks. Sift baking soda with flour and add to butter
mixture. Stir in vanilla and poppy seeds. Fold in
stiffly beaten egg whites.
Pour into a greased and floured 9 &times; 13 cake pan.
Bake in a 350degree oven for 1 hour.
ROGELACH
June Weiss
2 C. flour	6 Tb. sugar
1/2 lb. butter	1/2 C. walnuts, chopped
1/2 lb. cream cheese	1/2 C. raisins, chopped
2 Tb. cinnamon
Mix flour, butter and cream cheese. Place dough mixture
in waxed paper and leave in refrigerator overnight. Roll
out dough using a small amount at a time, to 1/4 inch thick-
ness on floured board. Cut with round medium cookie cutter.
Roll each circle with rolling pin once again. Fill with
mixture made of sugar, cinnamon, nuts and raisins. Roll as
for a jelly roll and shape into a horseshoe or crescent. Bake
at 375° on ungreased cookie sheets. When cool sprinkle with
powdered sugar.
This same dough is excellent filled with apricot jam and
shaped into small turnovers.
ROGELACH - 1974
Clara Seymour
4 C. sifted flour	Filling:
1/2 t. salt	1 C. sugar
1 cake yeast	3 egg whites, beaten stiff
2 1/2 sticks butter or oleo	1 C. walnuts, chopped fine
3 egg yolks slightly beaten	1 t. vanilla
1/2 C. sour cream
1 t. vanilla
Sift flour and salt together. Crumble yeast into flour.
Cut butter into flour as for pie crust. Add egg yolks, sour
Cream and vanilla and mix thoroughly. Divide into 6 parts
and chill overnight.
For filling, beat egg whites until fluffy and then gradually
add sugar until thick and shiny. Fold in nuts and vanilla.
Prepare this when ready to bake.
Dredge a pastry cloth with powdered sugar. Roll each piece
of dough into a circle not too thick, and cut into 8 wedges.
At wide end, place 1 t. filling. Roll loosely from wide end
to point. Bake on ungreased cooky sheet 400 degree for 15*** min,
Remove and sprinkle with powdered sugar.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520090)
SOUR CREAM HORNS OR CORNUCOPIAS
Clara Seymour
1 C. shortening	1 C. jam
2 eggs separated	1/8 C. bread crumbs
1 C. sour cream	1 1/4 C. crushed nuts
3 1/2 C. flour
1 t. salt
Cream shortening and add egg yolks and sour cream. Add dry
ingredients to form a dough. Mix well. Roll out dough to 1/8
inch thickness and cut into 2 inch squares. Mix the jam, bread
crumbs and 1/2 C. of the nuts together. Place this jam mixture
on each square of dough in a line going diagonally across the
square. Form squares into a horn shape, pinching pointed end
together tightly to make sure it is completely sealed. Beat
egg whites to form a meringue. Dip the wide open end of each
horn first into the egg whites and then in the remaining
crushed nuts, so that the horn is sealed over with a puff of
meringue and none of the filling shows.
Place on an ungreased cookie sheet and bake at 350° 20 to
30 minutes. Makes approximately 50 horns.
HUNGARIAN PASTRY
Bessie Ginsburg
1/2 C. butter	1/2 t. baking powder
1/2 C. sugar	Thick jam or jelly (preferably
1 t. vanilla	 with tart flavor)
2 egg yolks	1 C. nut meats
1 1/2 C. sifted flour	2 egg whites
1/8 t. baking soda	2 Tb. sugar
Cream butter, add sugar, vanilla and egg yolks gradually.
Beat mixture until light. Add flour shifted with soda and
baking powder and mix until smooth. Press mixture evenly
into square cake pan, spread dough with thick preserves and
sprinkle with half of the broken nut meats. Make a meringue
of the whites and 2 tablespoons of sugar and spread over the
nuts. Sprinkle top with remaining nut meats. Bake in moderate
oven 325° from 30 to 35 minutes. Serve in squares.
APPLE COFFEE CAKE
Halina Silverman
1 1/2 C. flour	1/2 t. vanilla
1/2 C. sugar	1/3 C. melted oleo
2 t. baking powder	2 medium apples- sliced
2 eggs-beaten	1/3 C. brown sugar
1/2 C. milk	cinnamon
Sift flour, sugar and baking powder together, Add eggs,
milk, oleo and vanilla. Stir until blended. Pour into
9 &times; 9 &times 2 greased pan. Decorate with rows of sliced apples.
Sprinkle brown sugar and cinnamon on top. Bake at 350
degrees until nicely browned and apples are soft-about
25 minutes.
COFFEE CAKE
Mildred Carron
2 1/2 C Flour	3 eggs
3 tsp. baking powder	1/4 1b. margarine
1 tsp soda	1/2 C. shortening
1/2 tsp. salt	1 C. sugar
1 C. sour cream
Cream shortening and sugar, Add eggs one at a time
beating until fluffy. Add dry ingredience which have
been sifted together, alternately with sour cream. Just
stir in until well blended and pour into a greased
9 &times; 12 pan or a tube pan.
<u>Topping</u>
1. 1 C chopped nuts
1/2 C. granulated sugar
1 t. vanilla
Pour 1/2 the batter, top with 1/2 the topping, pour
remainder of batter and top with remainder of topping.
Bake 350 degr. 35-40 minutes.
2. 1/2 C. brown sugar
2 t cinnamon
1/2 C. coarsely chopped walnuts or pecans.
Mix together and sprinkle on top. Bake 350 degr. for
35 to 40 minutes.
For a less rich cake, omit 1/2 C. shortening and use only
2 t. baking powder.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520091)
GLAZED FRESH APPLE COOKIES
Tillie Gerber
2 C. sifted flour	1/2 t. salt
1 t. soda	1 t. cinnamon
1/2 C. soft shortening	1 t. cloves (optional)
1 1/3 C. brown sugar packed	1/2 t. nutmeg
down	1 C. chopped nuts
1 egg unbeaten	1 C. chopped raisins
1 C. finely chopped unpared apple
Sift all the dry ingredients. Cream shortening, sugar
and then add egg. Add milk and then dry ingredients. Stir
in fruits and nuts. Drop desired size on ungreased cooky
sheet. Bake 350 degree oven for 12 to 15 minutes.
(Try baking this is a sheet. Cut in squares and dust with
powdered sugar. Ed.)
When cookies are cool. Mix a bit of water with powdered
sugar to make a glaze. Drop a drop on each cooky.
TAIGLACH
Naomi Lansky
8 eggs	1 C. sugar
4 1/2 C. flour	1 t. ginger
2 t. baking powder	1/2 C. walnuts
1 1b. honey	(cut up)
Mix eggs, flour and baking powder
thoroughly and knead well. Dough should
be soft but stiff enough to roll.
Roll with hands by bits into long
ropes 1/2 inch in diameter. Use
very little flour in rolling to
avoid toughness. Slice in 1/2
inch lengths. Heat oven to 350°.
While oven is heating bring to
boil the honey, ginger and sugar in
a shallow broad bottomed pan. Put in-
to this the particles of raw dough
while syrup is boiling. Then place
pan immediately into the oven. Do not
open for first 15 or 20 minutes. By
this time the honey will have coated
each piece of dough. Now, stir every
10 minutes to prevent particles from
sticking to each other. Allow 1
hour for baking. The pieces should
be brown and when tested in cold
water should remain firm and crisp.
Pour onto moistened board, flatt
en, sprinkle nuts on top and cot
into squares. Makes 40 pieces.
Will keep indefinitely.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520092)
WINE


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520093)
Wine has played an important role in
Jewish ceremony and culture throughout the
ages. In biblical times the use of wine
was obligatory both in public religious
functions and for domestic ceremonial
occasions. The references to wine as a
means of promoting joy, as a sign of the
bountiful gifts of providence, and as a
token of personal gratitude to the creator
are numerous throughout the Bible.
How highly wine is regarded in the Bible
may be seen from the fact that in a figure-
ative sense Israel is called a Tine. Later
the rabbis used wine as a mataphor not only
to represent Israel but also the Torah, the
Messiah, and holy men. In the Talmud it
is stated that in the world to come the
righteous will drink wine from the grapes
grown during the days of creation.
The greatest blessing in the conception
of the Hebrew people, the blessing of
peace, is represented by the picture of a
man resting under his vine and fig tree.
Abundance of wine is in the Bible an in-
dication of prosperity and to offer bread
and wine to a guest is a sign of friend-
ship and hospitality.
The rabbis held that taken in moderation
wine is not only a healthful stimulant
but is possessed of great curative proper-
ties, the best of all medicines. How-
ever, drunkeness was strictly forbidden.
It was the custom in Talmudic times to
give ten cups of wine to mourners with
the "meal of consolation".
The use of wine has been continued at
religious functions in the synagogue and
in the Jewish home on all festive occas-
ions to this very day.
CONCORD GRAPE WINE I
10 lbs. stemmed ripe grapes	5 lbs. sugar
Put grapes in an open crock and squeeze or mash by using two
smooth boards. Cover crock with muslin and let stand at room
temperature for 1 week. Stir once or twice during that period.
Strain through muslin. Do not squeeze the mashed grapes while
straining. Return wine to the crock and add the sugar, dis-
solved with some of the grape juice. Cover with muslin and
let stand 7 days longer at room temperature. Fill bottles with
wine, but do not cork tightly. Store away from light for one
month. Taste and add more dissolved sugar if desired. Store
in a cool place away from light. Will be ready for use in
3 months. Matures and increases in strength rapidly after
that initial period. Yields approximately 2 to 2 1/2 gallons.
CONCORD GRAPE WINE II
10 lbs. ripe grapes stemmed	3 qts. boiling water
	5 lbs. sugar
Put grapes in crock and pour in boiling water. When cool
enough to handle, squeeze with hands without crushing seeds.
The grapes need not be mashed to a dry pulp. Cover with
muslin and let stand 3 days. Strain through muslin, squeez-
ing lightly. Add sugar and stir. Cover and let stand 1 week.
Uncover and skim carefully. Strain again, bottle and cork
tightly. Lay bottle on side and store in a cool place away
from light. Ready for use in 2-3 months. Yields about 2
gallons.
RAISIN WINE
2 lb. light raisins	1 lemon, rind and juice
6 qts. cold water	3 sticks cinnamon (approximately
1 lb. sugar	1 ounce)
Chop raisins and add other ingredients in the order listed,
using a large well covered crock. Let stand covered at room
temperature for 1 week. Stir once a day to keep mixture well
under the cover. Fermentation will make the liquid rise and
bubble over if not given at least 4 inches of space under the
cover. Strain at the end of the week. A muslin cloth placed
in a large funnel over another crock makes an excellent strain-
er. Place liquid in bottles, cover tightly and store in a
cool place away from light at least two weeks before using.
Yields approximately 11/2 gallons.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520094)
CHERRY CORDIAL
6 lb. large sweet cherries	1/2 pt. brandy
2 1/2 lb. sugar	1/2 qt. boiled water, chilled
Stem, wash and drain cherries. Place in crock and add sugar
and brandy. Cover with double fold of muslin. Keep at room
temperature. Stir each day for 4-5 days to dissolve the sugar
completely. Cover tightly, and let stand 2 weeks. Stir in
water, cover and store in cool place. Can be bottled after 6
weeks. The cherries drained from this cordial may be used for
preserves. They are delicious eaten just as is. Yield depends
upon juiciness of cherries.
PEACH BRANDY
Clingstone peaches	3-4 C. sugar to each 2 qt. jar
Use peaches when ripe, but not soft to the pressure of finger
tip. Pack peaches in 2 qt. glass jars with wide openings.
Pour proper amount of sugar into jars and adjust covers loosely.
Shake jars once a day for one week or until juice begins to
form and all sugar is dissolved. The juice should cover the
fruit by that time. Tighten lids and store in a cool dark
place for 3 months. The brandy may be strained and bottled
any time after that. Yield depends on juiciness of the fruit.
GLOSSARY
AYELEH - The unhatched egg inside a chicken; considered the
treasure of the Shabbos soup. In Jewish homes it was
usually granted to the girls because it symbolized
fertility.
AFIKOMEN - The Passover matza; in the ceremony, blessed and
hidden for discovery by the children. of the family,
for which they were given prizes.
BAGEL - Hard, round doughnut-shaped roll, irrevocably wedded
to its fellow-travellers, smoked salmon and cream
cheese (particularly on Sunday mornings!). Made of
ordinary bread dough, first boiled in water and then
dried and baked.
BALABUSTEH - The maternal overseer of the Jewish home and
larder: under whose watchful eye masterfully concocted
species of aromatic morsels are born to tantalize the
family.
BLINTZES - Russian-Polish origin. Cheese, smothered in
raisins, insulated with a thin dough, fried, eaten
with sour cream ONCE --- and never forgotten.
BORSCHT - Russian origin. Beet soup mixed with sour cream,
served hot or cold, sometimes with a boiled potato;
looks like chicken soup with a henna rinse.
CHANUKAH - The Festival of the Lights, and celebration
commemorating the victorious return of the Macca beean
brothers to the Temple.
CHAROSES - An apple, chopped, with ginger, cinnamon, and nuts
added, symbolizing the mortar the Jews had to prepare
while in Egyptian bondage.
CHOMETZ - Food prohibited during Passover, when leaven is not
eaten.
CHREMSEL - Thick pancake, deep fried; can be stuffed with
fruits or nuts.
DREYDLE - A type of spinning top played with on Chanukah.
EINLAUF - An egg and flour mixture dropped into soup.
EREV YOM TOV - The night before the Holiday.
FARFEL - Noodle dough chopped into bits.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520095)
FLAISHIGEH - Foods derived from the meat of mammal or poultry.
The term is used to describe the utensils in which such
foods are prepared and served.
FORESCHPICE - Appetizer.
GEFILTE - Filled; can be applied to fish (see below) or to peo-
ple after eating same.
GEFILTE FISH - A potpourri of ground fish, seasoned with onions,
pepper, carrots, and formed into balls; served as an
appetizer on Shabbos and holidays.
GEHACKTE - chopped.
GILDERNE - Chicken soup.
GELT - Money. Pre-requisite, along with a "Balabusteh" for
any type of Jewish cooking.
GALUSHKA - Hungarian for dumpling.
GRIEBENES - Central and Eastern European origin. Crisp scraps
of skin and onions left from rendering poultry fat.
HAGGADAH - The account of the Passover story.
HALLAH - White bread, twisted and sprinkled with poppy-seed;
special treat for the Jews of the Ghetto on Shabbos,
as a pleasant departure from the daily fare of black
bread.
HALLAH-DECKEL - Cloth put over the hallah on Sabbath before
blessing the Sabbath lights.
HELZEL - Stuffed neck of chicken or other poultry.
HEIZENBLOZEN - Cookie dough which expands when fried in deep
fat.
HOLISHKES - Meatballs wrapped in cabbage leaves and boiled
or baked in sweet and sour sauce.
HAMANTASHEN - German or French origin. Three cornered cakes
made of sweet dough, and thickly filled with poppy-
seed, raisins or prunes. Eaten on Purim.
KASHA - Buckwheat groats.
KIBBET - Hebrew word for treat.
KICHLACH - Cookies or small cakes.
KISHKA - Central and Eastern European origin. Stuffed intes-
tine. Bread crumbs, fat, flour, and minced onion con-
stitute the stuffing. It is boiled or roasted with the
meat.
KLOESE - Matza ball.
KNADLACH - Matza balls. Of German Origin.
KREPLACH - German origin. Chopped meat enclosed in small three-
cornered bits of dough and cooked in soup.
KUCHEN - Cake or loaf made with yeast dough.
KUGEL - Pudding.
KULICH - Russian yeast-cake.
LEFFEL - Spoon.
LATKE - Pancakes; potato, matza-meal, or others.
LOX - Smoked salmon, a necessity with bagels.
LUKSHEN - Russian-Polish origin meaning noodles.
MANDEL - Almond.
MANDLEN - Soup nuts.
MATZA - Unleavened bread.
MENORAH - Candalabra used for the Chanukah lights.
MEGILLAH - The Book of Esther, traditionally read on the eve of Purim.
MILCHIG - Foods derived from milk and made with those products.
Refers also to the utensils used to prepare and serve
such foods.
MORAR - Bitter herbs eaten on Passover.
MOHN - German for poppy-seed.
NAHIT - Boiled and salted chick-peas.
PAHVE - Neither Milchig nor Flaishigeh; a neutral food cate-
gory.
PESADICK - Passover food; having to do with Passover.
PASTRAMI - Peppered corned beef.
PASSOVER - Holiday celebrating the deliverance of the Jews
from Egyptian bondage.
PIROGEN - Russian origin. Cooked meat or lung is mixed with
minced onion, rolled in dough and baked in small cakes.
served as a side dish with soup.
PIROZHKI - Same as PIROGEN only usually smaller.
PTZA - Calf's foot, jellied.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520096)
PURIM - Feast of Esther, commemorating the victory of the Jews
over the Persians.
ROSH HASHONAH - The Jewish New Year.
ROGELACH - Rich dough rolled and formed into crescent-shaped
cakes.
SEDER - The Passover celebration and service held on the first
two nights of Passover.
SHABBOS - The Sabbath.
SHAVUOS - The Pentacost; Feast of Weeks, falling fifty days
after Passover. The occasion for Confirmation.
SHOLOGH MONOS - Money given to the poor on Purim.
SCHMALTZ - Fat.
SHPIELER - Player or actor in the traditional Purim play.
Sometimes means a teller of tales, generally false ones.
SHTRUDEL - German origin - dough, rolled paper-thin and filled
with nuts, fruits, jam, cinnamon, sugar, and then
rolled in jelly roll fashion.
SUKKOS - Festival of the Harvest.
TAGACH - Potato pudding.
TAIGLACH - A Jewish confection made of pieces of dough
boiled in honey with nuts, raisins, and spices
added.
TCHAV - Sorrel or Spinach borscht.
TCHOLENT - A meat stew consisting of beef, potatoes, barley,
beans, and vegetables cooked in the oven overnight.
Designed to meet the need for a hot dish on the Sabbath.
TOM - An intangible Jewish flavor, taste or charm.
TZIMMES - Sweet and sour meat preparation, cooked with carrots,
prunes, sweet potatoes.
VERENICKES - Tart, filled with fruit or cheese.
VERTOOTEN - Snail-shaped little cakes filled with cheese.
YIDDISHEH - Referring to Jewish things.
YOM KIPPUR - The Day of Atonement.
YOM TOV - Holiday.
INDEX
APPETIZERS
Baked Herring, 56
Carrot and Cream Cheese Spread, 62
Cheddar Cheese Appetizers, 62
Chopped Eggplant I, II, III, 57
Chopped Herring I, II, 56
Chopped Liver, 58
Eggplant Caviar, 62
Hard Boiled Eggs and Scallions, 63
Hungarian Salt Sticks, 63
Ptza (Jellied Cow's Foot), 59
Pumpernickel Pie, 60
Sweet and Sour Meat Balls, 63
APPLE, 42, 163, 165,167, 168
Apple and Matza Kugel, 42
Apple Shtrudel, 163
Grated Apple Kugel, 42
Hungarian Apple Cake or Torte, 167
Mrs. Ingber's Apple Cake or Torte, 168
BAGELS, 159
Passover Bagels, 54
BEEF
Brisket of Beef, 128
Bubie's Meat Balls with
Chicken Giblets, 118
Esau's Pottage, 125
Mama's Jerkoyah (Pot Roast), 128
Meat Balls, 63, 127, 128
Passover Pinwheel Meatloaf, 45
BEETS
Beet and Horseradish Mold, 87
Beet and Horseradish Relish, 87
Beet Preserves, 54
Beet Salad with Horseradish Dressing, 87
Beets in Sour Sauce, 88
Easy Rossel - Easy Horseradish, 88
Eingemachts, 54
BLINTZES
Cheese Blintzes I, II, 149
Passover Cheese Blintzes, 44
Potato Blintzes, 150
BORSCHT I, II, III, 69, 70
Cherry Borscht, 70
Cold Meatless Borscht, 70
Ukranian Borscht, 70
BREAD
Hallah, 156, 157
Rye Bread, 158
CABBAGE
Cabbage and Apples, 95
Holishkes, 126
Kasha, 140
Stuffed Cabbage I, II, 126-7
Sweet and Sour Cabbage, 95
CAKE (also see Torte and Shtrudel)
Apple Coffee Cake, 183
Applesauce Cake, 165
Apple Squares, 165
Aunt Lena's Cheese Cake, 173
Carrot and Nut Cake, 172
Coffee Cake, 169
Coffee Cake and Topping, 183
Eggless Chocolate Cake, 165
Honey Cake I, II, 169
Kulich, 171
Mrs. Ingber's Apple Cake or Torte, 168
Orange Fruit Cake, 172
Parve Cake, 172
Passover Banana Cake, 51
Passover Date Torte, 49
Passover Jelly Roll, 48
Passover Nut Sponge Cake, 49
Passover Sponge Cake, 46, 47-51
Passover Strawberry Frosting, 47
Pesach Almond Cake, 48
Poppy Seed Cake, 180
Refrigerator Yeast Dough, 170
Russian Coffee Cake, 169
Vertooten, Little Cheese Cakes, 180
Wine and Nut Passover Cake I, II, 50
Yeast Cake, 170-171-178, 181
(Basic Sweet Dough Recipe), 170
CARROT
Carrot Tzimmes, 98
Carrot Tzimmes and Knadlach, 130
Potato and Carrot Casserole, 97
Charoses, 36
CHEESE
Cheese Cake, 173
Cheese Blintzes, 44, 149
Cheese Kreplach I, II, 151
Cottage Cheese Patties, 150
Lukshen and Cheese Kugel I, II, 139
Matza Cheese Kugel, 43
Passover Cheese Kreplach or Knadlach, 38
Chick Peas or Nahit, 101
CHICKEN
Chicken Fat (How to Render), 116
Chicken Casserole a la Rehovoth, 117
Chicken in Orange Sauce, 120
Chicken Livers and Mushrooms on
toast, 132
Chicken Paprika, 118
Chicken with Chick Peas, 120
Mother's Roast Chicken, 117
Roast Chicken, 117
Stuffed Helzel, (Chicken Neck), 121
Chremsel, I, II, 44
Cinnamon Rolls, 179


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520097)
COOKIES
Glazed Fresh Apple Cookies, 184
Love Knots, 177
Matza Meal Doughnuts, 53
Passover Almond Cookies, 52
Passover Mock Oatmeal Cookies, 52
Poppy Seed Cookies, 177
Spice Cookies, 179
Corned Beef I, II, 133
Cream Puffs, Passover, 53
CUCUMBERS
Cucumbers with Sour Cream, 86
Radishes and Cucumbers in
Sour Cream, 86
Sliced Cucumbers and Onion Salad, 86
Custard Filling, Passover, 53
DUMPLINGS
Egg Dumplings, 119
Galushka (Dumplings), 119
Liver Dumplings, 78
Eggplant, 57, 62, 89, 100
EGGS
Eggs with Herring, 113
Hard Boiled Eggs and Scallions, 63
Lox and Eggs, 113
Einlauf, 83
Esau's Pottage, 125
Farfel, 83 FISH (Also see Lox, Herring)
Baked Mackerel and Vegetables, 107
Boiled Fish, Polish Style, 106
Creamed Mackerel and Potatoes, 108
Fish Puree, 76
Fish Soup, 76
Gefilte Fish I, II, 104-105
Mock Gefilte Fish, 105
Paprika Baked Carp, 107
Pickled Fish, 111
Russian Fish Stew, 106
Sweet and Sour Fish, 111
Trout with Lemon Sauce, 106
Flank Steak, Stuffed, 131
Frosting, Passover Strawberry, 47
Galushka (Dumplings), 119
GEFILTE FISH I, II, 104-105
Mock Gefilte Fish, 105
HAMANTASHEN
Hamantashen Cookie Dough, 174
Hamantashen Dough, 174
Hamantashen Poppy Seed Filling, 175
Hamantashen Poppy Seed Nut Filling, 175
Hamantashen Prune Filling, 175
Heizenblozen or Snow Balls, 176
HERRING
Baked Herring, 56, 112
Baked Herring with Onions, 112
Chopped Herring I, II, 56
Eggs with Herring, 113
Herring Salad, 89
Pickled Herring I, II, 109
Pickled Herring with Cream, 110
HELZEL, Stuffed (Chicken Neck), 121
Holishkes, 126
KASHA, 147, 154, 140
Kasha Knishes, 147
Kasha, Varnitchkes (or Verenickes), 154
KICHLACH, 176
EggKichlach, 176
KNADLACH
Carrot Tzimmes and Knadlach, 130
Matza Kloese (Ball), 37
Matza Knadlach, 78
Matza Marrow Balls, 37
Passover Cheese Kreplach or Knadlach,38
Passover Liver Knadlach, 38
Potato Knadlach I, II, 39
KNISHES
Kashe Knishes, 147
Knishe Dough Made with Potatoes, 143
Knishes, Romanian Style, 144
Liver and Potato Filled Knishes, 147
Potato Liver Knishes, 145
Potato Filled Knishes, 146
KREPLACH I, II, 81
Cheese Kreplach I, II, 151
Passover Cheese Kreplach or
Knadlach, 38
Kuchen, Lithuanian Gooseberry, 166
KUGEL
Apple and Matza Kugel, 42
CornKugel, 137
Grated Apple Kugel, 42
Lukshen and Cheese Kugel, I, II, 139
Lukshen Kugel, I, II, 139
Matza Cheese Kugel, 43
Passover Potato Kugel, 43
Potato Kugel, 138
Kulich, 171
Lamb Shanks, Roasted, 131
Lima Bean Casserole, 99
LIVER
Chopped Liver, 58
Liver and Potato Filled Knishes, 147
Liver Dumplings, 78
Matza and Liver Pie, 41
Passover Liver Knadlach, 38
Sauted Liver, 132
Vegetable Chopped Liver, 58
LOX
Lox and Eggs, 113
Lox and Potato Casserole, 108
Lox and Potato Soup, 76
Picked Lox, 111 LUKSHEN (noodles), 83
Lukshen Kugel, 138, 139
Macaroons, Passover Almond, 52
Mandel Bread, 179
MANDLEN I, II, 79
Passover Mandlen I, II, 40
Matza Recipes, - (see specific name.)
MEAT BALLS
Potted Meat Balls, 128
Sweet and Sour Meat Balls, 63, 127
Nahit (Chick Peas), 101
NOODLES, 83
Lukshen Kugel, 139
Lukshen and Cheese Kugel, 139
PANCAKES
Matza Meal Pancakes, I, II, 137
Potato Latkes, 136
Sour Cream Pancakes, 136
PASSOVER RECIPES, 36-54
PASTRY (Also see Hamantashen,
Kuchen, Shtrudel, Torte)
Cinnamon Rolls, 179
Hungarian Pastry, 182
Julia's Nut and Poppy Seed Rolls, 178
Mandel Bread, 179
Rogelach, 181
Rogelach with Sour Cream
Yeast Dough, 181
Snowballs or Heizenblozen, 176
Sour Cream Horns or Cornicopias, 182
PICKLED FOOD
Dill Pickles, 90-91
Corned Beef, 133
Pickled Tongue, 133
Rossel, 88
PIE (Also see Torte)
Matza Meal Pie Crust, 54
Pumpernickel Pie, 60
PIROGEN, 153
Pirogen Fillings, 153
PIROZHKI, 152
Other Pirozhki Fillings, 152
PLETZEL, Matza, 43
POTATO
Creamed Mackerel and Potatoes, 108
Liver and Potato Filled Knishes, 147
Lox and Potato Casserole, 108
Lox and Potato Soup, 76
Passover Potato Kugel, 43
Potato and Carrot Casserole, 97
Potato Blintzes, 150
Potato Filled Knishes, 146
Potato Knadlach I, II, 39
Potato Kugel, 138
Potato Latkes, 136
Potato Liver Knishes, 145
Potatoes in Sour Cream, 97
Potatoes, Russian Style, 97
Potatoes Stuffed with Mushrooms, 96
Potato Tagachs (Little Puddings), 138
Prune and Potato Tzimmes I, II, 99
Rose's Gefilte Potatoes, 96
Pot Roast, 128
Prune and Potatoes Tzimmes, 99
Sweet and Sour Prune Tzimmes, 131
Ptza (jellied Cow's Foot), 59
Ptza, Pressure Cooked, Pickled, 59
Putterchuchen, 171
RELISH
Beet and Horseradish Relish, 87-88
Pepper Relish, 92
Red Cabbage and Green Pepper Relish, 92
ROGELACH (Cheese Rolls) 181
Rogelach with Sour Cream
Yeast Dough, 181
SHTRUDEL 162-164, 166
Apple Shtrudel, 163
Lithuanian Gooseberry Kuchen or
Shtrudel, 166
Mrs. Ingber's Shtrudel, 162
Pineapple Juice Dough Shtrudel, 163
Sour Cream Dough Shtrudel, 164
Shtrudel Cake Roll, 164
Snow Balls or Heizenblozen, 176
SOUP (also see Borscht, Tchav)
Barley Soup, 75
Cabbage Soup, 72
Chicken Soup, 66
Creamed Sweet and Sour Bean Soup, 74
Fish Puree, 76
Fish Soup, 76
Lentil Soup, 74
Potato Soups, 71
Pea Soup, 66
Saurkraut Soup, 72
Sweet and Sour Cabbage Soup, I, II, 72
Uncle Harry's Favorite Barley Soup, 75
Vegetable Soup I, II, 67
SOUR CREAM
Cucumbers with Sour Cream, 86
Potatoes in Sour Cream, 97
Radishes and Cucumbers in Sour
Cream, 86
Sour Cream Dough Shtrudel, 164
Sour Cream Horns or Cornicopias, 182


---------------------------------------------------------------------
                      (Hada520098)
Sour Cream Pancakes, 136
Sour Cream Strawberries, 180
Sour Cream Yeast Dough,
(Rogelach), 181
STUFFING
Stuffed Helzel, 121
Matza Stuffing, 41
Poultry Stuffing, 121
Stuffed Kishkas, 121
STUFFED CABBAGE OR HOLISHKES
I, II, 126, 127
TAIGLACH, 185
Passover Taiglach, 36
Tchav, 73
TcholentI, II, 124
TONGUE
Pickled I, II, 133
Tongue with Sweet and Sour Sauce, 132
TORTE
Hungarian Apple Cake or Torte, 167
Matza Date Torte, 49
Passover Nut Torte, 49
TZIMMES
Carrot Tzimmes, 98
Carrot Tzimmes and Knadlach, 130
Prume and Potato Tzimmes, 99
Sweet and Sour Prune Tzimmes, 131
VEAL
Kasha Stuffed Veal Breast, 129
Veal Paprika, 129
Veal Salad, Russian Style, 89
Veal Steak, Hungarian Style, 129
VEGETABLES
Broccoli Casserole Supreme, 95
Cabbage - See Cabbage, 95, 126-7, 140
Eggplant Baked with Tomatotes, 100
Elaine's Spinach Pie, 94
Lecho, 100
Potatoes, 96-97
Ratatouille, 94
Tzimmes- See Tzimmes, 98, 99, 10, 131
Vegetarian Patties, 98
VERENICKES
Kasha Varnitchkes, 154
Verenickes with Cream Cheese, 154
Verenickes with Fruit, 154
Vertooten, Little Cheese Cakes, 180
WINE, 189-190
Cherry Cordial, 190
Concord Wine, 189
Peach Brandy, 190
Raisin Wine, 189
PASSOVER RECIPES
Almond Cake, 48
Almond Cookies, 52
Almond Macaroons, 52
Almond and Matza Kugel, 42
Bagels, 54
Banana Cake, 51
Beet Preserves, 54
Charoses, 36
Cheese Blintzes, 44
Cheese Kreplach, 38
Chicken Soup, 66
Chremsel I, II, 44
Cream Puffs, 53
Custard Filling, 53
Date Cream Pie, 51
Date Torte, 49
Easy Rossel-Easy Horseradish, 88
Eingemachts, 54
Fruit Whip, 47
Gefilte Fish II, 105
Mock Gefilte Fish, 105
Grated Apple Kugel, 42
Jelly Roll, 48
Knadlach, 37
Liver Knadlach, 38
Mandlen, 40
Matza and Liver Pie, 41
Matza Cheese Kugel, 43
Matza Knadlach, 78
Matza Marrow Balls, 37
Matza Meal Doughnuts, 53
Matza Meal Pie Crust, 54
Matza Pletzel, 43
Matza Stuffing, 41
Nut Sponge Cake, 49
Nut Torte, 48
Mock Oatmeal Cookies, 52
Pinwheel Meat Loaf, 45
Potato Knadlach, 39
Potato Kugel, 43
Rolls, 54
Sponge Cakes, 46-7
Taiglach, 36
Wine and Nut Cakes, 50
NOTES
